Hi. Welcome to the supply chain finance module. In this segment, we will focus on the cash to cash cycle, also known as the cash conversion cycle. Our objective for this segment is to introduce you to the concept of the cash to cash cycle. I'll also explain the mechanics of how to calculate the cash to cash cycle, and we'll review some of the ways to interpret that cycle. The cash to cash cycle is known by several terms, including the cash conversion cycle, the cash cycle, and the operating cycle. It is a liquidity measure, meaning that it provides an indication of the ability of the company to pay its bills using the cash, or other assets that can be quickly converted into cash. The cash cycle expresses liquidity in terms of the amount of time, measured in days, that a company uses to sell its inventory, collect its receivables, and pay its accounts payable. In simplest terms, the cash conversion cycle is the amount of time that it takes a company to use cash to buy materials, make a product, sell the product, and then get paid by the customer. This is how much time the company's cash is tied up in the operation of the business. The shorter the total cash cycle, the less amount of time that cash is needed. This is a good thing, because that means that the company can convert its assets into cash more quickly, making it more capable of meeting its financial obligations. As I just mentioned, the cash conversion cycle considers the time it takes for three specific cash cycles. First, consider the days of inventory outstanding. This is the number of days that it takes for the company to convert inventory into a sale. Next is the days of sales outstanding. This is the number of days that it takes the company to get paid by the customer. Lastly is the days of payables outstanding. This is the number of days that it takes the company to pay its suppliers. We calculate the cash conversion cycle by adding the days of inventory outstanding to the days of sales outstanding, and then subtract in the days of payables outstanding. Basically, we add the amount of time that we need to use the money-- making inventory, selling the product, and waiting to get paid-- and then we deduct the amount of time we get to use suppliers' money-- that is, the accounts payable. Let's look at each of these elements to fully understand each. The days of inventory outstanding is calculated by dividing the average inventory by the cost of sales-- also known as cost of goods sold, or COGS-- and then multiplying that by 365. The DIO answers the question, how long does it take the company to convert the inventory into a sale. In the formula we use cost of sales, or COGS, because inventory is maintained on the assets at cost. And the cost of sales indicates how much was sold over the year. When you compare the cost of sales over an annual period with the amount of inventory on hand, you get an indication of how long that inventory was on hand before it was sold, hence the amount of time that the cash was tied up. Now which is better, a high DIO or a low DIO? And what are the pros and cons? In general, a lower DIO is better, but it varies by industry. It is best to understand the reasons for the high or the low DIO. However, a firm may choose to have a higher DIO, recognizing the need for a longer production cycle, and maybe a longer sales cycle for custom products, for example. This illustrates a few ways to calculate the DIO. Basically, the same components, but arranged in a slightly different way. The main thing to point out here is that the average inventory should be used. This will require looking at two different balance sheets to understand how the inventory may have varied over the sales time period. The days of payables outstanding is calculated by dividing the average accounts payable by the cost of sales, and then multiplying that by 365. The DPO answers the question, how long does it take the company to pay its suppliers. In the formula, we use the cost of sales, or COGS, because materials are recorded as inventory assets at cost. We look at the average accounts payable, because that tells us how much material was purchased, on average, over the time period. Just as we had to calculate the average of for the DIO calculation, we must similarly calculate the average accounts payable for the DPO. We ask again, which is better, a high DPO or low DPO? And what are the pros and cons? In general, it's better to have a higher, or a longer, DPO, because that means you're enjoying the benefit of holding the cash longer before you pay the supplier. But there is a downside to longer DPO, if this is damaging the relationship with the supplier. Or even worse, damaging the supplier's ability to perform by extending their payment to them. So one really needs to be considerate of the impact of extending payments on your suppliers, lest you force them into unappealing situations. The days of sales outstanding is calculated by dividing the average accounts receivable by the total sales, and then multiplying that by 365. The DSO answers the question, how long does it take the company to get paid by its customers after it makes a sale. In the formula, we use total sales, because in this case, we are referring to sold product, where the sale is recorded at the revenue, or sales value of the sale. We look at the average accounts receivable, because that tells us how much sales revenue was due, but not yet received. And just as we had to calculate the average accounts payable for the DPO calculation, we must similarly calculate the average accounts receivable for the DSO. We ask again, which is better, a high DSO or a low DSO? What are the pros and cons? In general, a low days of sales outstanding is better, because that means it takes your company fewer days to collect from customers. That means you'll get your cash faster, and makes your working capital more liquid. However, a high DSO might indicate that the firm is providing financial support to its suppliers, which might not be a bad thing if this is purposeful, and useful to lock in suppliers. Alternatively, it could mean that the company is selling to less credit worthy customers, in order to make their sales. We just don't know. Further research really is necessary to understand it. Let's look at a comparison of the cash conversion cycles in the automotive industry in 2014. I pulled the data that we see here from the annual reports of Toyota, General Motors, Tesla, and Honda. This data comes right off the income statement of the balance sheet, and you too can quickly conduct this kind of analysis. It's a very simple calculation that provides a lot of insight, and an interesting comparison across an industry. And perhaps raises lots of questions. Let's look at the calculations in particular, and let's start with days of inventory outstanding. DIO is calculated by taking the average inventory, dividing it by the cost of sales, and then multiplying it by 365. For Tesla, we calculate the average inventory by adding the starting inventory to the ending inventory, and dividing that by two. This means adding $340,355, plus $953,675, dividing, again, by two, which gives you the average of $647,015. We divide that average by the cost of sales, which is $2,316,685. Multiplying that by 365, to arrive at 101.9 days. You can go through each of these cases to calculate the DIO, the DSO, and the DPO, and the total the cash to cash cycle for each of these companies. This would be a good exercise, and give you some good practice in this. Looking at the data overall, we can see that firms have very different approaches that affects their cash conversion cycle, as well as their working capital. A primary distinction between these companies is that GM, Honda, and Toyota sell through a traditional franchise dealership model, so they are not selling direct to the consumer. Tesla operates with a company owned store model, and for some of their products, the customer will pay some money upfront, in advance of the actual delivery of the product. Most of the other automotive companies have financing arms that fund the purchase of the vehicle by the consumer. One would need to consider these figures and these facts in light of those distinctions. Overall, we can see that GM has a negative cash cycle, which means that they can sell a product and get paid before they have to pay their suppliers. Looking at their DPO, it's long by comparison with DSO and DIO, and their days of sales outstanding is very short. This may also tell us more about their relationship with their dealers, and that they are getting paid by the dealers quickly. Toyota, by comparison, has over a three month cash cycle, with a long days of sales outstanding. This may indicate that Toyota is giving their dealers a lot longer to pay for their purchases. Honda is more balanced all around, with each, DSO, DIO, and DPO taking around two months. 50 to 60 days. Tesla, the new automotive company, has an interesting model, based on these figures. It takes them a long time to sell a product, over 100 days, but they collect from customers in about two weeks. And they also extend payments to their suppliers to nearly three months. This may make sense for a very high-end product being sold direct to consumers. Let's look at the cash cycle graphically, which will give us a different perspective, considering the cycle along a timeline. The timeline starts where materials are purchased, raw materials or finished goods. And then that ownership is transferred to the purchaser. The DIO represents, therefore, the time between when raw material purchases are made and the time when the finished product is sold to the customer. Again, how long it takes to convert that material inventory into a sale. The next part is the days of sales outstanding. Recall that DSO represents how long it takes from the time you sell that product, to the time you can actually get paid. When we calculate to cash to cash cycle, we add the DSO and DIO together, because that's how long it is for the company, from the time they make a commitment to purchase material to the time they collect the payment from the sale of a finished product. But that's not the total time that the company needs to fund the operation, because from that total, we can deduct the time that the company has to pay the supplier. When the company pays the supplier, it's really the first time that the company needs to outlay cash for the production of a product. And so we subtract the DPO, or the days of payable outstanding, to arrive at our cash to cash cycle. What this tells us is that the cash to cash cycle provides some input into the timing of working capital requirements. If the company can adjust the timing of even one of these different events-- the timing of the sale, the terms of payment to supplier, or from the customer, the timing of the purchase of materials from the supplier. All of these, or each of these can have a meaningful impact on the amount of time that the company needs to fund its operation, as well as the amount of capital that is required. Let's talk about our key lessons. It's important that we understand the components of the cash conversion cycle. We should also recognize that these are important levers for the company to use to proactively manage how much financial resources are required to operate the business. Those of us in the supply chain can play a role in this, by actually understanding the components, and working to adjust them to the favor of the company-- by developing favorable terms with suppliers and with customers, which would affect the DPO and the DSO. And by reducing the sourcing and production cycle time, which would reduce the DIO. Finally, the cash conversion cycle can provide useful input to the timing of working capital requirements, adding a time dimension to the working capital requirements that was not there before. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use the discussion area, and I look forward to seeing you in future sessions. Thank you.
