In this segment, we're going to consider another kind of cash flow, and that is a free cash flow. And we'll show how free cash flows help us pull everything together in evaluating our supply chain initiatives. So let's start by asking the question, what are free cash flows? This doesn't sound intuitive, because there's obviously no such thing as free cash. But we will show how cash is freed up by considering this overall investment process that we discussed earlier. So the value proposition of the firm is to invest money internally in its operational assets to generate future cash flows that exceed the investments and then free up cash. And that process-- at the end, we hopefully will free up enough cash to be attractive to our investors. So this will combine the relevant cash flows that are in red-- relevant to a particular initiative-- and it's also projected over time. We may have several periods. As we talked about, there may be several future periods of cash flows to do to consider that are projected in the future. So combining those projected and relevant cash flows and capturing the net of those over time in periods 1, 2, 3, et cetera, we get that pot of free cash flow that's created through this particular initiative. And we're trying to make sure that that cash that's freed up is attractive to our investors. And primarily, we're actually really considering our equity investors. Because the decision to take on debt is a separate decision we want to consider in a different way than we consider our investments and initiatives. So a definition here-- the free cash flows are the funds that are available to the investors, specifically the equity investors, after the firm invests its capital and pays taxes on the profits that come from the investments. So to consider how we're going to get to the free cash flows, we want to make sure we're capturing all of the relevant cash flows that are projected over time in our supply chain. So here again is a picture of our supply chain with the financial flows. And so the kinds of cash flows we want to consider over all are the revenues that come in from customers, the cost of goods sold for those revenues, the direct raw materials we pay to suppliers, the direct costs for those as well as direct costs inside of our firm in terms of labor and equipment et cetera that are dedicated to particular goods. We also have general operating expenses that happen across the firm to generate the revenues that we need to consider. The revenues minus all of our relevant expenses will give us another relevant cash flow, and that is the taxes we have to pay on the profits that come out of that. And finally, we also have investments in capital expenditures and the working capital requirements to run our firm. So these are the main categories of the relevant cash flows that we want to consider overall in our supply chain initiatives. And we'll see that several of these come from the income statement. And the bottom ones here are income statement. And the ones up here, the capital expenditures and the working capital, are from our balance sheet. And so in bringing all these different items together in our supply chain initiative, it's going to be helpful to use incremental financial statements to capture all these projected relevant cash flows. And incremental is important, because it's going to be, again, incremental to this particular project with or without. And we're going to look at it over time in a projected way. So let's start by looking at the incremental income statement. And we've seen this before in the earlier segment, the basic aspects of the income statement. And basically, everything on the income statement is going to be relevant except for interest expense, because that's related to that financing decision, which is something we don't want to mix in with our investment analysis. Obviously, we wouldn't want to consider non-operating expenses in our supply chain, and we wouldn't want to consider extraordinary items. But we still want to incorporate income taxes. So in keeping just these most relevant cash flows for our investment decision, we see a slightly simplified income statement. And we see that once we get our EBIT here at the bottom and subtract our income taxes based on that EBIT, we have a new term called NOPAT-- Net Operating Profit After Taxes. And that'll be a useful term in calculating our free cash flows. And another way of defining this is being the EBIT minus the taxes we pay on the EBIT, or 1 minus the tax rate times the EBIT. Now remember, depreciation, we've incorporated it here, but remember, it's not really a cash flow. It's not really relevant cash flow, because cash is not moving. It doesn't satisfy that first cash flow principle. Cash is not moving. We've needed to incorporate it here to get our income taxes correct, but we should take it back out, because it's not a cash flow. So the bottom line-- the relevant cash flows from the NOPAT, this new term we came up with, is our after tax income. And then we've added back in the depreciation that we used to calculate our income taxes correctly, but it's not really a cash flow. Moving on to the balance sheet, again, here's a picture of our supply chain. We've already accounted for revenues, operating expenses, and cost of goods sold as well as taxes on our income statement, and that leaves us with our capital expenditures and our working capital. And so we're going to look at the incremental capital expenditures and working capital from our particular initiative at hand. And for each period in the future projected forward in period t over time, we will calculate the capital expenditures and the net increase in working capital requirements. Combining the income statement and the balance sheet together, again, here's the income statement portion of the NOPAT plus the depreciation amortization. That's a positive cash flow, because it's income coming in. The balance sheet-- these are both stated in terms of cash outflows-- the expenditures that we're making in capital expense as well as the net increase in working capital requirements from our balance sheet. And using the reformulation of NOPAT relative to EBIT here and putting it all together, we see the formula for our free cash flows. Now, this will be calculated over several periods over time, free cash flows over several periods. And so it'll be helpful to program this formula into a spreadsheet and calculate it over the various periods we're going to consider. And we can see here again to get our NOPAT, it's our revenue minus COGS. So we have the signs over here-- minus cogs, minus operating expenses, minus depreciation amortization, then calculating our income tax based on the EBIT, subtracting that out to give us our NOPAT. Adding back in our depreciation, and then subtracting our balance sheet items, our incremental balance sheet items of capital expenditures and the working capital investments needed. The bottom line will give us our free cash flows that are again projected over time over these various periods. So these are the relevant projected cash flows pulled together into the term free cash flow. So to demonstrate this, let's go back to our example of White Nile. This is the online retailer we considered in the previous segment. They're adding a new warehouse to provide better home delivery service. And we've talked about some of the relevant cash flows-- that being obviously the new warehouse and the equipment that goes inside of it. That's the capital expenditure. We hopefully will get more sales from that better service in that region-- it's not going to be all of the revenue in our firm, but the incremental revenue that comes from the warehouse in that region. We're also going to have warehouse labor we talked about, but we may want to generalize this to be more of a warehouse operations. Labor is one part of our warehouse cost, but we may have utilities and other costs of running a warehouse. So we'll make this a more general term of warehouse operations costs. We talked about how we could lower transportation costs by having the warehouse and therefore consolidating loads into larger loads in bound. And we will also to fill the warehouse up, so we're going to have more in inventory, so it's a net increase in working capital. So to flesh out the example, I'm going to provide you some numbers here. For the warehouse, it's $5 million. The incremental revenue is $6 million. The warehouse operations, $400,000. Again, we're having lower transportation costs. We're reducing our operating expenses by $200,000 on transportation, and an incremental investment in working capital of $600,000 for the inventory. Now, there are some additional cash flows we're missing. Remember, we've tried to think about all the financial flows in our supply chain. And you may want to go back, pause for a minute, go back and think about what are the cash flows we might be missing, and then restart the video again. So hopefully, going back and looking at the cash flows in our supply chain and the incremental income statement and balance you may have come up with some additional cash flows. And here's the ones that I'm thinking are going to be relevant here. And that is, obviously we have more revenue, but with that comes cost of goods sold. We didn't account for that formally. We said we have $6 million in revenue, so we have a cost of goods sold. And we'll have to calculate that based on considering what we call gross margin. So gross margin, just to give you a quick definition, is equal to the revenue minus the CGS divided by the revenue. And that should be equal to 25%. Depreciation is another cash flow that we need to incorporate to get our taxes right. And it's a depreciation of this whole $5 million over 10 years. And we'll call it straight line depreciation, so it's the same amount each year over 10 years. We may also want to consider that with a time horizon of three years, we may have salvage value for this particular warehouse. We may not assume we're going to keep it forever. So let's assume we sell it after three years, and we're going to sell it at a book value, which would be the initial investment capital expenditure minus whatever depreciation has accumulated over those three years. And then we have income taxes to consider as well, another relevant cash flow. And we have to have some assumption about what our income tax rate is, and we'll assume it's 30%. So based on these additional relevant cash flows, see if you can think about how to calculate at least some of these items based on the numbers up here and the assumptions we've listed beside each of these, and see if you can come up with some of the numbers we'll need to incorporate in our example. OK. If you've paused the video, I hope you've had a chance to think about that. I'm going to put up the numbers here, and see if you got your calculations correct. So for our gross margin to be 25%, we have to have-- our revenue here is $6 million. And so 25% of that is $1,500,000. So revenue minus our COGS to give us 1,500,000, that means our costs of goods sold would have to be $4.5 million. For depreciation, 10 years straight line, you just take the 5 million divided by 10 to give us 500,000. That's pretty easy math, right? And finally, the salvage value is-- once we've determined our annual depreciation, our depreciation over three years is 1.5 million, so 5 million minus 1.5 million equals 3,500,000. Hopefully, you didn't spend too much time trying to calculate income tax. It's a bit tricky to do that with the numbers here. You're going to have to pull things together a bit. So I'm going to put it as to be calculated, because we're going to do that in our spreadsheet. One other assumption here is that we don't have any inflation. Remember, I mentioned that earlier in an earlier segment. In all these exercises we're not assuming there's any inflation. We'll assume that same amount continues over time. So once we put this in, we take our individual line items that we mentioned before in blue here-- here's the revenue of $6 million. And remember, there's no inflation, so it stays flat over all three years. We get our COGS in there. Notice that our transportation cost is a negative number, because it goes down. And our warehouse operations is a positive number, because that increases our operating expenses. And the net of these two together gives us an increased operating expense of $200,000. Our depreciation shows up here, and so if we take our signs over here, we can calculate this as we go. 6 million minus 4.5 million gives us a $1.5 million gross income each year. Subtracting out our operating expenses of 200,000 then gives us an EBITDA of 1.3 million. Subtracting out our $500,000 of depreciation gives us an EBIT of 800,000, and then that gives us at a 30% tax rate an income tax of 240,000. Subtracting that out, we finally get our NOPAT of $560,000. Notice I got rid of the thousands. All of the numbers here are in thousands of dollars, because it's a lot easier to see the numbers without all the zeros. So our NOPAT is our cash inflow coming in. We have to then add in the depreciation down here. So we add in the 500,000 that was the same as we had up here. So I just add it back in. Then we have our capital expenditures. And we're assuming those happen right away. So those happen in period 0, the $5 million for our new warehouse and equipment. We're also considering in period 0 that we have to invest in our inventory right away, so that's $600,000 of inventory investment, gives us a net increase in working capital investment And there's also at the end of the period-- we're assuming, again, a horizon of three years, so we're going to sell our equipment. Here's the salvage value, and it's a negative 3.5 million, because it's a negative expenditure because we're getting money back. And the same way when we sell off our warehouse-- we're going to sell off the inventory in the warehouse, and so we'll again have a negative net working capital requirement, because we'll get that working capital back at the end of the three years. So we take our NOPAT and make those adjustments, we finally get our free cash flows. And you can do the math here to see that it works out. So you can see how the incremental income statement and the adjustments from the balance sheet pulled together in the free cash flows really help us account for all of the relevant projected cash flows. And that free cash flow is really useful in making investment decisions-- a lot better than having various-- we could have tried to account for all the different line items that we listed initially as relevant cash flows, but those line items become complicated. Because first of all, we could have things that are confounded. So not in this example, but consider you had revenue growth and margin growth at the same time. It's hard to calculate both the revenue increasing as a top line number as well as the margin increasing at the same time. It's easier just to put it into the incremental income statement to confound those rather than keeping them as separate line items. It applies income tax once in an effective way. Otherwise, with line items, we would have to consider the after tax flow of every one of the line items, and it's a bit complicated there. Also, business professionals are really accustomed to reading income statements. So seeing an incremental income statement is something that they're more familiar with. And again, coming back to the beginning of our segment here, the investor value, the equity investors are really caring about the cash that we're freeing up over time. So those free cash flows are really the critical aspects that they're considering as we're making our investment decisions in our supply chain initiatives.
