So let's talk about aggregate planning. Whenever we talk any type of planning-- whether it's demand planning, or production planning, or anything in between-- we need to know what the horizon is. And so for aggregate planning, we're dealing with a three-month to 18-month planning horizon. However, we've already talked about a shorter planning horizon, and that's between now and roughly three months. Now the numbers that I'm giving for the timelines and for the time fences in the planning horizons are general, rough guidelines. Every company's going to be a little bit different, and I'll talk more about that in a second. But generally as I get closer to now, my schedule gets much more rigid-- I have fewer things that I can change. And so we've talked in the past about these three time fences that we have. From now to, say, 3 or four weeks out I might have a frozen time period, where for my master production schedule I can change nothing, it's frozen-- I'm going to produce exactly what's been demanded, what customers have reserved. There might be a period out, say, five to eight weeks where it's slushy, where I'm allowed to make some changes to the MPS-- say plus or minus 10%. And then there's a period after that where I'm able to make even wider range of changes. Now in this time frame I'm looking at planning SKUs or families of SKUs. So it's pretty detailed. And as I get closer, then I get more and more frozen. What we're going to talk about in this lesson is aggregate planning. And this is where it's from the roughly three-month to 18-month time period. And instead of modeling individual SKUs I'm going to look at aggregated volumes. I'm going to combine all those SKUs because I don't care about the mix yet, I'm trying to get some big planning things done. Why is this different from what we do for the master production scheduling? Well, I have other things that I can change-- I have different levers. For here, my only real lever is the number-- how much do I produce, does it go up, does it go down-- and shifting it a little bit between time periods. In this three to 18-month period I have a lot more levers that take more time to implement. I can hire people, I can fire people, I can decide to outsource-- so all these other things that we'll talk about in more detail in a second. But those are the things that are in this three to 18-month bucket. Then you can think of longer term-- and I arbitrarily said 18 months here, but it can be much longer or much shorter, depending on the company. And these are more long range-- or really longer range-- planning. And we had some examples of this earlier in this course when we talked about network design. We talk about network design, these are things you don't do for tomorrow-- I'm not going to do network design for tomorrow's flow because I've got to build facilities, they're dramatic changes. So as I'm further out I can make bigger changes because they take longer to implement. So I mentioned that these are all just general guidelines. And what companies want to do, they constantly want to shorten these time cycles. So for example, if I could move my frozen time fence for the master production schedule from four weeks to two weeks, that makes me much more agile. So while we have these fences, there should always be an effort to try to shrink them. Why? Because that makes me more agile-- I can respond to the market much faster. Now the other thing that changes is the units that I'm planning. For this shorter time frame it's very disaggregated and I'm looking at individual SKUs or families of SKUs. For aggregate planning, that 3 to 18 months, I'm looking at this aggregated volume-- I'm going to convert them into a unit that makes sense. And for longer range you use flow units. And we talked about this a long time ago-- whatever makes sense for your certain operation, whether it's tons, cubic feet, units, barrels, whatever makes sense, because you're making different decisions. So let's focus in on aggregate planning problem. So we're going to be given a forecasted demand over this planning horizon-- again, 3 to 18 months roughly. We're going to determine the production, the inventory levels, the workforce, how much do I outsource if I do it all, and the capacity levels. And I'm going to do this in order to maximize the firm's profit over that 3 to 18-month planning horizon. Now I have certain levers that I can change. So these are levers that I can adjust to maximize that profit. So I can change the production rate-- how much do I produce? Do I increase that or decrease that? My workforce-- do I make it bigger or smaller? Do I bring in seasonal workers? Overtime-- do I have my existing workers work longer? I'm going to have to pay them more, but that might be easier than adding or subtracting workers. Machine capacity-- can I improve the capacity of my equipment by having more go through it? Should I outsource to a contract manufacturer? Should I allow backlogs? Can I allow it to go short so that I catch up later on? Or on the other hand, should I build up pre-inventory ahead of the time when I need it? So these are the levers that we're going to focus on to determine how to maximize a profit over the planning horizon.
