Hi. Welcome to the Supply Chain Finance module. In this segment, we're going to talk about the role of accounting. Now, the accountants in the firm play a number of different roles, and some of the decisions that they make do indeed affect those of us in the supply chain. But let's talk about the fundamental roles that the accountant plays. First and foremost, they are recording the transactions of the business. Meaning any time that there's money that comes into the firm or goes out of the firm, they're recording that in some transaction. When there's material that comes into the firm or goes out of the firm, they're recording that as a transaction. Now, they use those transactions, and those are the source material for a number of different reports, including financial reports that serve investors in attempt to provide investors with an objective perspective of the performance of the firm. Tax accountant reports basically provide a list to the IRS of the performance of the firm representing their financial obligations to the IRS. And then lastly, there are internal reports called product cost reports that management uses to help make decisions about which products to invest in an other investments that the firm should make to improve the performance of the business. Now, all of these are prepared consistent with basic accounting concepts, but keep in mind that there are choices that the accountant can make with regards to some other transactions. There are limits and there are legal guidelines, of course, that he or she must follow. Now, the annual report is one of the more popular or common reports we might think of and there are a number of different components, including some of the financial statements such as the income statement and balance sheet, there are notes in financial reports which provides some detail to the numbers in the aforementioned financial reports. It's very important to go look at those and understand those if you really want to understand the numbers on the income statement, the balance sheet, and the statement of changes and financial position. And then there's the chairperson's comments, and this generally provides the leader's assessment and explanation of the performance of the firm and usually an optimistic assessment of the future that the firm faces. Lastly, there's a statement from a public accounting firm, and auditing firm, and their statement really does not offer an opinion on how well the business is performing. Only it suggests that the reports repaired in compliance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that the reports are a fair representation of the numbers that they were given as the accounting firm. Now, tax accounting and financial accounting are quite different and there are different objectives as we had just described. It's important to understand the distinction. The financial accountants and the financial reports are going to attempt to provide a fair representation of the performance of the firm, and this is primarily first for investors and stockholders. Compare that with the tax accountant's objective, and the tax accountant's objective is to minimize the tax liability and to defer the payment of taxes as long as possible. Of course, that's better for the firm. It's better for the firm to reduce its financial obligations and to delay payments it has to make of any kind. Now, understandably, with those two different objectives and those different sets of reports, you can recognize that this is quite complex. And as such, the tax code permits organizations to actually maintain two sets of books. So it's completely legal to do that. Now, let's understand a little more why that's legal. Within United States, the tax code permits firms to depreciate capital assets. That's assets that have lasting value longer than one accounting period. Generally speaking, it's more than five accounting periods. And the tax code also permits organizations that have capital assets to depreciate those using a different schedule, meaning that there's a different rate of depreciation. Now, we'll talk about what depreciation is in a moment. But again, it's legal for organizations to have two sets of books-- one for accounting and more for tax reporting. Now, let's talk about depreciation. What is that? Well, it's an expense to the firm. So as we think about the income statement, you have a revenue line which represents the monies that come in, and you have expenses. Expenses are those that are costs to the firm, and then the resultant of deducting the expenses from the revenue out of a profit. So within the expenses there are often-- not often, but most of the expenses are cash expenses, like for materials and labor and such. But depreciation is an unusual expense. It's a non-cash expense. What it is, it's a recognition that a capital asset that a firm might have, let's say a piece of machinery that they paid $100,000 for and that's going to last 10 years, well each year, there's a value, there's a cost for using that. And that cost is represented as a depreciation. So it's basically an estimated cost of using that asset. Then in recognizing and recording a depreciation expense, each year, the capital asset is reduced by the exact amount of the expense. Let's go over an example to better understand this. So let's assume that a firm buys a machine for $10,000 and they figure that this is going to last 10 years. And therefore, the annual depreciation expense is going to be $1,000 per year. Assuming a 10-year life, so we have to understand how long that capital asset will last, the value of that asset at the end of its life-- in this case we're assuming it's a zero residual value-- and then also the rate of depreciation, which is how much of that is depreciating each year? And so in this case, we're looking at what's called the straight line method, meaning each year the depreciation is the same as the next year. So again, with $10,000 cost over a 10-year period, that means $1,000 each year the depreciation expense is recorded, and that asset is depreciated by that exact amount each year. So after year 1, the asset would be valued at $9,000 and there would've been a $1,000 expense recorded in that year 1. In year 2, there would be another $1,000 expense recorded, and then that asset would be recorded as being valued at $8,000. Now, the depreciation rate changes based on what the firm thinks of how long their the material is going to last and the value associated with its use in each year. That's for the firm to decide. Now let's go through an exercise here, and the challenge is to calculate the depreciation expense for the value used of a truck each year given these facts. It cost $60,000, it will last 5 years in terms of its service life, and at the end of its service life, it will have a $5,000 salvage value. Let's assume that each year the depreciation expense is going to be the same. What is that annual depreciation expense, and what is the impact on taxes? Well, let's look at that. Here are the facts as we've just described them. Important-- the first thing we have to do is understand what's the total amount we're going to depreciate? In this case, it's going to be the purchase cost of $60,000 less the remaining value at the end, which is $5,000. So how much is going to be depreciated is $55,000. Now, over what time period? We said a 5-year time period. OK, 5 years service life. So that means we take this $55,000 and we divide it by the service life, and that will give us $55,000/5, or $11,000, which represents the annual depreciation expense. So what does that mean in terms of the impact on taxes? Well, what it means is that each year, the firm is reporting an $11,000 expense that they didn't have before, which means there's $11,000 less of revenue that they have the report. And therefore, they report a higher expense. It means their net is going to be lower and therefore their income is going to be reported lower even though they're actually going to have that cash on hand. And with the lower income, that means their tax obligation is going to be lower, as well. Let's talk about key points. As suggested, the accountants in the firm are the ones who are reporting all the comings and goings of cash and materials within the firm. And this serves as the basis for all of the different reports that accountants prepare, whether it's for investors, the IRS, or management. We spent some time talking about depreciation, and this is the recognition of the value used of capital assets. And it's important to understand that because within the supply chain, many of the capital assets are used by the supply chain. It's important to understand the actual quality and condition of those assets. Recognize how old, how new they are, and whether that capital is being replenished, the capital equipment is being replenished or not. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use the discussion area. I look forward to seeing you in future sessions. Thank you.
