Let's now talk about the different type of constraint. And this is volume discount. We now have carrier 1. Carrier 2, in this case, does not give volume discount. Only carrier 1 gives volume discounts. And the way carrier 1 gives volume discount is, in fact, explained here and here. In each case, carrier 1 says, the first five loads are going to be more expensive than the rest. So you have to give me. I'll give you two prices. Let's look at [INAUDIBLE] A to B. I'll give you five 20 and 500. But you have to give me at least five loads of the 520 in order to enjoy the 500 price. Or here, you have to, on c to a you have to give me at least five loads at 500 in order to enjoy the and 480 price. So we introduce here a whole set of row And a whole set of new variables. We just change carrier 1. And we call it 1 and 1, also. 1 is the number of laws that carrier 1 is getting under the expensive price. And I also, here is the number of loads that carrier one gets under the lower price. This price. The problem with this, if we just go to the optimisation is-- the optimization is done. Find the best solution, which will be assign everything to the lowest cost. Everything that assigned to carrier 1 will be assigned to this cost here, to the low cost. Somehow we have to force the optimization to say, you cannot use the low cost until you pay the higher price for at least five loads. In order to do it, this is just repeating what I said is the cost for five loads. This is the cost for greater than 5 loads. This is the minimum at the high rate for the carrier. There's no capacity basically on the low rate. And we just introduced carrier 2 has certain capacity. So now let's see what we do. And by the way, this is the sum product. The sum product is for everything. So it's multiplied all these three columns by these three columns. The sum, of course, will still need to be 10. So let's see how we deal with it. We basically introduce a constraint. Call it the break for-- the constraint is for each lane. So for each lane, the break times the expensive flow, times the inexpensive flow. And this applies only to carrier 1 in this example. So the break is this number. In this case, the expensive flow, the number, it's the number of loads done under the expensive flows here. And the chief flow is the number of loads done on the chief flow. Let's see what does it mean. We introduce it into the optimization. We call it, cap. That the break is the break or capacity. This is the capacity times the flow under the expensive price, times the flow under the cheap price. This is what comes into here. So this is minus 50, because it's 5 minus 10 times 10. So 5 minus 10 times 10 is minus 50. And it's the same for each one of them. And what we want to introduce is we don't want to look at this as a constraint. We want to make sure that this will be equal 0 for each one of the rules. Why do we want each one to keep 0? Because in this case, either this or this has to be 0, which means that we cannot use S1 also. We can not use the cheap [INAUDIBLE] price until S1 is equal to the cap, until as one equals 5. If S1 is less than 5, this must be 0 in order for the product to be 0. So this kind of forces the optimization to first use the high price and then the low price. So this is just what we talked about before, 5 times 10 times 10 is minus 50. And each one of those has to be equal to 0. So I also can be positive only if I equal to the capacity, which is 5 in this case. So we now look at the particular example. And here is the spreadsheet. And you see each cell, in this case j4, which is here, minus c12. This is capacity minus S1, times d12, which is here. This is S1 also, has to be 0. And this is true for each one of the rows. So here, we introduce this condition. This is the condition. j12 to j15 equals 0. So what does it look like? This is this particular condition simply says that these are capacities. So any number here has to be smaller than the corresponding number here. And this is the condition of the rows, that we have to have 10 loads at least 10 loads. And this is, as I mentioned before, the conditions of you have to give at least 5 to carrier 1 on the high price before you get the low price. So if we run this optimization, we get first of all the condition is met. So these are all 0s, which means you see here that we want to use, for example, carrier 1, what we want to use the low price on a to b. But we have to first use the high price, then we can use the low price. And this is the same for each one of them. Of course, for c to b, it's better to use-- here, it's better to use carrier 2. So here we get another solution. And see, as expected the solution is higher than before, because we introduced a constraint. But this is the solution. Let's move on beyond this particular example of volume discount. The important thing is that there are all kinds of tricks and considerations in order to impose what we want in the solution or the optimization. Let's give you a real example of a system requirement. It's called a core carrier program. This particular example from a company that I used to work with. And this is several years ago. They were, they wanted to reduce the number of carriers. These is a large company throughout the US. And they were served by hundreds of carriers. And management said, we need to reduce the number of supply that we do business with, because we want to have better relationships with the supplier, closer relationship. Let's have just them. The question is why 10, and does it make any sense. So they wanted to take the large number, introduce a small number. So the question, how much does it cost to reduce the carrier base. So let me show you exactly what happened. The question is the lost opportunity cost. Limiting the number of carriers is a constraint. You say, I want only 10 carriers that you yourself, introduce. The question is, how much does it cost you to introduce this type of contract. You will have a higher cost solution. And the main question is, is it worth it? So this is an actual example. These are the [INAUDIBLE]. So the bidding was done with 200 carriers. And these were the results. So this is the annual expenditure here. And this is the number of carriers that we constrained. So we did optimization with 200 carriers. Then we said, OK, let's try, let's constrain it to 10. Turns out that it was infeasible. You could not find a solution with only 10 carriers. The best that you could find is find a solution with about 12 carriers. 12 carriers, we could find a solution. So we rerun the optimisation and say, 12 carries. We get a solution that's-- I don't know, 76 million dollars. Then we run the solution over and over again. We run 15 with 20 with 25 with 30 with 35. Notice several things. After a certain point, the graph stays flat. It doesn't go up. It doesn't go down. The reason is that, at that point, you already identified the number of winning carriers that's optimal. So adding more carriers does not do anything. It's the extra constraint that's so-called non-binding. This constant doesn't constrain the solution. So that's important to know. That after a certain point, probably here or somewhere here, the solution stays flat. The question now is OK, so how many carriers do we need? Based on this, how many carriers to take? You look at this. And the answer is you need another piece of information. In order to decide how many carriers to actually use, you need to know what's the cost of dealing with an extra carrier. You know, there is a cost of dealing with extra carriers. You have to set that carrier on your system. You have to give them reviews. You have to set up payment with them. So there are costs of dealing with each carrier. Once you know this cost, you can now say, what's the number of carriers. And this cost will look like a line that. And you see where it is tangent to this graph. And it's coming out to about here. So it turns out the solution was about 25 carriers. This was this the line represents the cost of dealing with an extra carrier. And given that, we can now determine that the best solution in this case is 25 carriers. But recall what we did here. We ran successive optimization. We had already all the data. We had already all the [INAUDIBLE] And we ran successive optimization in order to decide whether to make a business decision. Is it 25 or 20 or 15? This happens a lot. When this is used in reality, companies are running successive optimization. People introduce all kinds of constraints, because you can now introduce a combination of this. What happens if we do 25 carriers, but we give it 30% business to minority carriers. Then we want 50% to be incumbent carriers. Oh, this doesn't look too good. Let's do-- Let's try something else. So you try many, many things. The big plus of using these is that, instead of what we call, discussions over beer, everybody take an opinion. Now it's good to have 30%. It's good to have 40%. It's good to have so many carriers. It's good to have that many carriers to get this kind of business. You can do it mathematically. And this is the big benefit of using this approach. So let's stop here, and go do some problems. And I'll see you again in the next segment.
