OK. We've formulated the network facility location problem. Now let's solve it. So I'm going to have to extend the problem a little bit to make it realistic. We'll stay with New England Root Beer Distributors, NERD. We'll call this problem NERD 2. And we'll see that they've expanded their market from just three cities-- Boston, Springfield, and Providence-- to a series of cities, 12 cities across New England. And they have five candidate DC locations-- Boston; Nashua, New Hampshire; Worcester, Massachusetts-- it looks like it's pronounced "wor-chester." It's "wuss-ter"-- Springfield; and Providence. OK. So I've got these 12 locations. And I've got five candidate DCs. And they want to know where should you locate the single DC. So I've got in this table, I've got the demand or the weight for each of the locations, and I've got the x- and y-coordinates. You can see that I set it up for New Haven, which is down here, is at 0, 0. So that's my bottom leftmost city. Now for fun, and I'll let you do this on your side, if you do the center of gravity, or the Weber method, you can find the location assuming continuous location of all these. And I'll let you do that on your own. But for candidates, what you really need is different information than x,y coordinates. What you really need is in what's known as the distance matrix. And that's what I have here. And so it shows for each city. And here are the 12 cities. Right? Boston to Worcester. And each of the candidate DCs is a column. Right? Boston, Nashua, Providence, Springfield, and Worcester. And I've got the distance. For example, from Hartford to Providence is 73 miles. From Portsmouth to Worcester is 85 miles, and so on. And you'll see it it's not quite symmetric because I didn't list it for all cities. It's not a city to city matrix because we will never distribute root beer from, for example, Brattleboro to Manchester. We just won't do that. Everything comes from a DC and goes to one of the cities. I also have the weight here. So that's all there. OK. What else do we know? We're going to say that to open a facility, it costs $10,000 a week. This could be labor. This could be rental. Whatever. The fixed cost is for that facility and it's independent of how much root beer I push through it. It's a fixed cost. It has nothing to do with the amount of product that I push through. My cost for going from i to j is simply going to be $1 a mile times the distance. I'm just keep it really simple here. So we assume every mile cost $1. Then my total supply is simply just that sum of the demands that are coming out and go into d_j. That's a total supply going through. And I'm going to set-- because I only want one location. My P_min is equal to my P_max. Remember, P_min is the minimum number of DCs that I can open. And P_max is the maximum number. If they're the same, then I'm forcing the solution. So I'm forcing the model to say, find the single location that maximizes or minimizes my total cost. And my cost is both my flows, my transportation cost, and my fixed cost for the facilities. All right. So let me show you what the spreadsheet looks like. And just calm down. It looks complicated because it's big. And this is that extended formulation that I like. And I'll explain why in a second. But let's talk through it. So let me talk you off the ledge because it hasn't changed that much. In cell B3 up here, I've got my objective function. And that's my z. Hasn't changed. In these cells, I've got my binary variables, my y_i's, and their fixed cost, the f_i's. And then all across here I've got my xijs. That's the flow decision variables and the cost for flowing on each of those. And you can see up here in cell B3, it's just the same sum product that I've had before, the decision variables multiplied by their costs. OK. Then I've got a bunch of constraints. In the first set are the exact same ones as the transportation, its maximum supply at each DC. Then I've got a bunch of demand constraints. And again, these are exactly the same. Now I've had to add these ones for minimum maximum number of DCs. And you can see that all I'm doing is summing up the yijs and making sure that they are less than my P_min or greater than my P_min and less than my P_max. And then all these big ones down here, these the linking constraints. And so all it's saying is that the xijs, if there's any flow, then you've got to turn your yi on. You've got to turn your DC on if you're going to flow anything out of it. I've got my left-hand constraints. These are just sum products for each of these. It's simply the sum product of the row that it's adjacent to multiplied by the decision variable row. That's the same function that's through all of these constraints in this column. It's the exact same function. So we really haven't changed anything. And then over here I've got my right hand sides. So why do I like this formulation? I love it because it shows the structure of the problem. If I look at this, I can see all these linking constraints. Here's the one for all of Boston. Right? That's those negative m values. And you can see what's known. This is known as an identity matrix. So I know that this is linking all the Boston constraints. So anything coming out of Boston, if there's any flow on any of these xij variables, right, because these are the ones that's saying there's flow out of Boston, then it's going to turn on my y_i. These ones are turning it on for the next one, which is Nashua. And so the nice-- one of the reasons why I like doing it like this, it shows me the structure of the problem. Now, the downside is, as your problem gets larger, you will never be able to do this because it gets too big. But it's very helpful. I love setting it up this way because you see the structure of the problem. And you understand that this is just matrix algebra. All that I have for functions here, I've got some products here in this column. And I've got a sum product up here to sum things up for the cost. Those are the only two functions I have in this entire spreadsheet. As I make this more compact, it gets a little more opaque and less transparent. OK. Enough about that. Now we're going to solve it. So how do I solve it? I bring up my solver. And I'll put in my objective function, which is just that cell B3, which is simply the sum product of the decision variables and their relevant costs. I'm going to minimize it. My decision variables, or changing variables, are highlighted there. Then I've got a series of constraints. I've got my capacity constraints. Then I've got my supply constraints. These are the demand constraints, rather. Then I've got the plant minimums and maximums. And they're both equal to 1 for this because I only want to find one facility location. Then all my linking constraints. And you see that the right-hand side is all 0 because it's a negative m times y plus the x is less than 0. And then I've got something that's saying that these y variables are binary. And I want to make sure that I check this box to make all the xijs non-negative. And I'm going to use a simplex method. And I'm going to solve it. Press the big solve button. And I get this. And here are the answers. So all I'm doing is showing the top left side of the spreadsheet just to blow it up a little bit. Remember this is that cell B3 that tells my objective function. So my solution is $89,478 per week. And what DC am I opening? I'm opening up Worcester because that's a 1. The other ones are 0. In this slice of the spreadsheet I'm showing the flows from Worcester. And so you're seeing that I flow from Worcester to Boston 425 units, 12 units from Worcester to Brattleboro, 12 units, 43 Worcester to Concord, and so forth. So what the model has done, it's shown me which facility to open and how much is flowing. So this is my solution for this model. Now the question is I just opened one DC. Worcester is the optimal location amongst the five candidates that gives me the lowest total cost, fixed cost, and flow cost that I forced it to be one. Is one the right number? Should open more facilities? So that's what we're going to look at next.
