In the following segment, we talk about value-based sourcing, how to think about buy beyond price. And what we're talking about here is the value beyond the purchase price for that item. The question is, what other assets and capabilities the supply can offer in addition to the product and service procure? So let's not base it only on the price and even on the other item related to the product. But maybe there are other things that the supplier can bring. So let's have some questions. Is this supply better with existing activities? For example, once we get good relation with supply, maybe they can manage our inventory. Maybe they can manage our after sales support. Maybe they can help us with product development. Can the supply somehow decrease our risk? Can to supply reduce bottoming? Can the supply purchase critical part better than others? Is the supply better at disruption response? Does the supplier better in managing exchange rates? And many other things the supplier can do that's better than us, then we can learn from them. Can the supplier provide some other competitive advantage, some new products variant, something else that we didn't think about? Can the supplier have expanded portfolio? Can the supplier once we work with them and they understand our customer needs, maybe they can offer something else that we can add to our portfolio and make our customer even happier? So think about the supply relationship in terms of transduction focus versus collaboration focus. In collaboration focus, you think about the high-value product, high-risk product, and complex supply market. It's basically, the upper right-hand side of the value map. In the transaction focus, you talk about low-value product, low-risk product, and simply supply market, the bottom left corner of this map. And if you think about communication, contract lengths, and supplier involvement, clearly, in the collaboration focus but, there's more communication, contracts are longer, and suppliers are more involved with us. This is exactly the opposite with low-value product. You don't want to be partner with low-value product suppliers. So you don't communicate much with them. You do short contract length because you can replace them. And you're not getting involved with the supply. Let's talk about some of the characteristics of a traditional sourcing versus value-based sourcing. So in traditional sourcing, you focus on price. Let's say, we all know that. In value-based sourcing, you focus on value. So it's not how much it costs but how much you get to versus how much it cost. So in traditional sourcing, you focus on the total cost of ownership versus focusing on the total contribution, which is a similar concept actually. Tradition sourcing is very process driven venomous sourcing is driven by the strategy. You don't tie up to the process itself, but you may think about the corporate strategy and where you're going and where the supplier may help you to go. In traditional sourcing, you use benchmarking, and you want to be just as good as the next guy. In value-based sourcing, you want to be better than other people. So you seek differentiation. You don't use benchmarking. If you use benchmarking, it's just in order to make sure that you're better than others not that you can be as good as others. In traditional sourcing, the procurement professional is involved in the definition of the specification. In the value-based sourcing, the procurement person is involved in the setting up the strategy. To reflect this, in traditional sourcing the chief procurement officer reports to an executive committee. In value-based sourcing, the chief procurement officer is a member of the executive committee setting up the strategy. In traditional sourcing, we'll talk about procurement skills for the procurement person. In value-based sourcing we'll talk about business skills, much bigger picture. In tradition sourcing, procurement is an independent function. It serves the business. The customers are the business people who need the product or the service. In value-based sourcing, procurement is a line. It's part of the process. It is linked with the business stakeholders. Let's stop here, and we'll go soon to the next segment.
