Hi. Welcome to the Supply Chain Finance module. In this segment, we will focus on working capital. Our objective in this segment is to introduce you to working capital and identify the role that supply chain managers play in assisting in the managing of working capital. First, what is working capital. Well qualitatively, working capital is a basic measure of both the company's efficiency as well as its short term financial health. One way to think about it is that it's the amount of financial resources that are used to conduct daily business. And it includes current assets such as accounts receivable, cash, and inventory. Tracking working capital is therefore important to best understand how the company's resources are being used to serve its business objectives. Now that is rather general, so a more detailed description is wanted. Quantitatively, we calculate working capital by subtracting the current liabilities from the current assets. More often than not, working capital is presented in terms of a positive monetary figure. When the figure is positive, it represents a net amount of financial resources or capital that's required in order to operate the business. And it also indicates that the business has enough current assets to continue operations. If the working capital figure is negative, that could be a good or a bad indicator. In the worst case, a negative working capital figure indicates that the business does not have enough current assets on hand to pay their accounts payable and short term debt obligations. If the company cannot convert other assets into cash, then the business will not be able to satisfy their short term obligations and they run the risk of losing credit or worse, they run the risk of bankruptcy. Now in some cases, a company is able to operate on negative working capital. How can that be. Well this can occur when a company can collect payments in advance of the time that they need to pay their suppliers. Meaning that they're using the money from customers to fund the operation of the business. This can work for subscription businesses or businesses where the customer pays upfront for a product that is produced and delivered at a later date. Now the primary components of working capital are accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable cash, short term investments, and short term debt. Now we managers and leaders in the supply chain can have an impact on these factors. That is-- accounts receivable, inventory, and accounts payable. But not so much on these factors, short term investments and short term debt. And we'll see over the course of our time together what managers might be able to do to deal with accounts receivable, inventory, and accounts payable. Sometimes working capital is measured in terms of a ratio. And one of the more common ones is called the current ratio. The current ratio is calculated by dividing the current assets by the current liabilities. If the current ratio is less than one, the business has negative working capital, meaning that the current assets are less than the current liabilities. And that means that the company cannot pay their current liabilities with their current assets. If the current ratio is greater than one, but less than two, this is often considered a healthy range for the current ratio. And if the current ratio is above two, this is considered a potentially unhealthy range, possibly suggesting that the business is using its working capital inefficiently. In this case, the business may have too much inventory on hand compared with what is necessary to serve the business. This, of course, depends on the business model and go to market approach. So the ratio is more of an indicator that warrants deeper analysis. Now a more stringent ratio is called the acid test. The acid test uses a slightly different formula for calculating the current ratio, including only cash, accounts receivable, and short term investments in the numerator. It does not include inventory. This essentially assesses the ability of the company to pay off its current liabilities by using only current assets that are cash or that can be quickly converted into cash. Because it would likely take some time to convert inventory into cash, inventory is not included as asset in the acid test. Working capital performance is also measured in terms of working capital turnover. This is another ratio which gives an indication of how the company is able to generate sales using the working capital. This ratio helps answer the question, how effectively is a company using its working capital to generate sales. We calculate working capital turnover by dividing the sales for a particular period of time by the working capital. In general, a higher working capital turnover is preferable because it means that the company is able to generate more sales with the same amount of working capital. We've established that working capital is important for the business for several reasons. Of course, it's an indicator of the efficiency of the business, but also an indicator of the financial health of a business. Basically, can they pay their bills. Well given that, let's go over some options for the company to consider for actively managing their working capital. One option is to collect the receivables quickly. This may seem like an obvious pursuit, but it carries additional weight when put in the context of proactively managing the working capital. Some firms are very aggressive in collections and manage them by creating terms and conditions to provide incentives for their customers to pay them on time and even early. It's not uncommon to hear of a term called 2% net 10 days. And that means that the company would give a 2% discount on the outstanding balance if the customer pays your bill within 10 days of receipt of the invoice. Another way to manage the working capital is to stretch the payables out as long as possible. But there is a risk to taking this approach because this could damage the relationship with suppliers. It may also affect the suppliers willingness to supply and their ability to respond to critical needs. And worse, it may damage their supplier's ability to operate. So if an organization intends to extend the payable cycle with its suppliers, it may be better to structure those arrangements in advance with the supplier so that the supplier is not surprised and put into a potentially problematic flow situation. Companies can also manage the inventories to lower levels, so long as it isn't enough to provide the service that the business needs to serve their customers. Avoid cutting inventory to reduce working capital requirements without first assessing the impact of those cuts on service level. Another alternative is to consider converting current liabilities into long term liabilities. Now this doesn't make those liabilities go away, but it does take the obligation out of the current time frame. The supply chain manager has the potential to impact a number of the components of working capital. And the first and most significant impact will come from managing the inventory, just as we've mentioned. As I just suggested, managing the inventory levels down makes sense but only in the proper context of the business situation and the business objective, as well as the supply chain strategy. For example, if a company competes on the basis of having a high service level, then it makes sense for the company to maintain high inventory levels as well as responsive supply chains. All the same, the supply chain manager is responsible for making sure that the inventory policy is consistent with the business date and for managing the inventory levels efficiently and effectively. The supply chain manager also has an impact on two other primary components. And those are accounts receivable and accounts payable. By working with suppliers and customers, maintaining working relationships with each, and by structuring the terms and conditions of sale with each, the supply chain manager can directly affect the cash flows coming from customers and flowing to suppliers. This slide shows a few selected ways that supply chain managers can impact working capital through different supply chain practices and policies, some of which we've just described. On the left hand side of the slide, we see a list of practices or potential actions. The column on the right list advantages and then disadvantages from using that practice or policy. In the first example, we see extended payment terms from suppliers. This means that the company would arrange to pay the suppliers longer than the standard payment term. That helps working capital by reducing the amount of cash required to pay the supplier in the near term. But the supplier will probably increase their pricing at some point in order to offset the higher cost that they have to serve your company. On the second line we see discount for early payment by customers. This helps working capital by increasing the cash component and reducing the accounts payable component. But the company will receive less than the full revenue from the sale. If the company finances raw material or work in process for suppliers, this will raise the working capital requirements because the company's likely financing the materials with short term debt. On the plus side, it will more likely assure supply from that small supplier. So we can see from some of these examples that there is an impact on working capital as well as an impact on operating business from these different practices. Well that makes sense. Business operations will impact working capital and vice versa. So it is helpful to think about these in advance and select the practices that work best for the company and the financing plans. Let's talk about working capital requirements. How much working capital is necessary to properly operate the business. Well, enough working capital is enough to serve the customers, to deal with some variation in cash flows, and to operate the business overall. Keep in mind that when we say operate the business, this means operating at the target service level and therefore maintaining the requisite inventory to deliver that service level. The company should be considerate of variations in cash flows and therefore one should understand the timing of the operational cash flows. Start from the time of purchasing materials that the company would use to produce and sell the product, consider the time from the purchase of materials to the time of payment to the suppliers, and then consider the time from the product sale to the time it takes for the customer to pay for the product. These three time-driven development are components of the cash cycle, which we will speak about in another segment. Let's talk about the key points. Working capital represents the resources that are utilized to operate the business and keep it functioning. Positive working capital is generally better than negative working capital, but it really depends on the business model of the company and of the timing of the cash flows to suppliers and from customers. Remember, it's possible to operate with negative working capital. The supply team manager plays a key role in managing working capital because the supply chain has control of inventory as well as influence on accounts receivable and accounts payable, two other important components of working capital. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use the discussion area and I look forward to working with you in another segment. Thank you.
