So now, let's talk about bills of material. And so, essentially, a bill of material is just a list of ingredients. And so, if we have here a product-- and this is a bicycle. I can draw what's known as a product tree. And the product tree consists of the parent, which is the end item, the bicycle-- and let's call it model 1234-- and the components. And the major components are the frame-- that's that metal tubing-- a front wheel, the saddle, the rear wheel, and the handlebars. So that's a component list. Now, I can go to the next level down. And I could say each one of these components is a parent in itself. And it has other subassemblies or subcomponents that go into it. So you can think of this as a tree structure. Now, this product tree is really what's known as a multi-level bill of material. So why is it multiple levels? Well, it's showing all of these different levels for each individual item. So what if I had another bike? Let's call it model 5678. And it's a slightly different frame. Let's say this is use frame B, and over here I use frame A. But I might have some common subassemblies, or parts. For example, the wheels, so I might have a wheel and the wheel consists of what? Well, it has a rim. It has the axle. It has spokes. It has the tires. And it has tubes that go within the tire. And I might want to even have a separate listing for the rear wheels because that consists of a regular wheel plus a sprocket. And then, I can think about all the other components. And what the difference here is each of these go into multiple items as opposed to keeping it separate under each end item. So what single level bills of materials help you do is you want to use these in your system because all the wheel requirements will go into here. And you're not keeping it isolated just under one product because, typically, subassemblies are used in multiple end items. And that's a good thing. Think back to inventory. If I have modularity, in other words, the same wheels are used in 20 different end items, then managing that inventory is going to be much easier. I'm going to have better forecast accuracy and lower safety stock than if I had separate tires for each individual bike, or end item. So it all ties together here. So what the MRP, or the bill of material, will do is it's a way of tracking these items that are in multiple end items. OK, so let's drill into this a little more. And the first thing you do with a bill of materials is you explode it. And what that means is you go from your end item, your bicycle up here-- and we're just going to focus in on a couple of the components. We know that it takes two wheels to go into the bicycle and one crank assembly. And that's this thing right here, the crank assembly. And for each wheel, I'll need 86 spokes and one rim. And for each crank assembly, I need one sprocket-- that's that piece right in the middle-- two cranks and two pedals, one on each crank. So what I've done here is I've exploded from the end item demand all the indentured demand for all of the subcomponents and assemblies. So for every bike, I'm going to need two times 86 spokes. I'll need two rims. I'll need one sprocket. I'll need two cranks and two pedals. So as the demand for bicycles changes, so does the demand for everything else because they're indentured, they're dependent, on the end item demand. So how will the MRP use this? Well, let's flesh out the bill of material a little more. So I have this end item, this bicycle, and if I want to make one of these, it takes me two weeks once I have all of the products together to assemble it. That's my lead time. Now, I've got two subassemblies. And so, for each bicycle, I'm going to need two of these wheels and one crank assembly. So the wheel goes in here. You can see how the subassemblies go into the product. Then, I've got components. So I've got 86 spokes and one rim for each wheel. And sprockets, cranks, and pedals, one, two, and two, going into each crank assembly. And for each item, I need to know my lead time. That's part of the planning factors I need to know. So when I place an order, how long will it take for me to have those products ready to use to assemble? So this is the bill of materials. And what am I going to do with this? I'm going to put it in an MRP system where I'm going to follow a very simple approach. It's a lot of bookkeeping, but it's pretty straightforward. I start with the level I demand. That's the highest level, the bicycle. And I say, OK, how many do I need at a certain time? That's my gross requirements. How much do I have on hand? And then, I find what I need, my net requirements, by subtracting the two. What I need minus what I have on hand is what my requirements are going to be? That's how much I need to order. When do I plan my order release? Well, that's whatever the lead time dictates. And so, once I set that, then I go to the next level. And I say, OK, if I'm going to need this many of the end items, then how many of the next components am I going to need? What do I have on hand? How much do I need to order? When do I need to order based on lead time and so forth? So you start rippling down from this demand to what each of the subassemblies need. And then, down to what each of the components need. So let's see this in a slightly bigger example. And so, for this example, we're still working on our bikes. And I'm just working on two of these subassemblies here, the wheels and the crank assembly. In week eight, my gross requirement is 25. I want 25 bikes that I can sell. So how many do I have on hand? None. So therefore, how many do I need? What's my net requirement? 25. So I need 25 bikes in week eight. What's my lead time? Two weeks, one, two. So I'm going to place an order in week six for those 25 bikes. I need all the materials to put those bikes together, they need to arrive for me, in week six. So now, I go to the second level. These are the wheels. If 25 are being requested in week six, then I need to have 50 tires ready for each bike. How much do I have on hand? None. What's my net requirement? 50 minus 0 is 50. My lead time here is only one week. So therefore, in week five, I want to place those orders. And I carry down now to the third level, the spokes that go into the wheels that go into the bike. If I need 50 in week five, that means I need 50 times 86, or 4,300. None on hand. Net requirement is 4,300. It has a three week lead time. So what have I done? To have 25 bikes ready to sell in week eight, I need to have my spokes ordered by week two. So what we're seeing here is to have something ready, when do I have to do everything? When do I have to place my orders? And how much do I place for all of those indentured items within my BoM, within my bill of material. So let's expand this out a little more to more of the bike and more of the components. And again, I want 25 bikes in week eight. So therefore, I'm placing my planned order release for 25 in week six. That ripples down both to the level two, the wheels, and for the crank assembly. You see they both get signals. If I need 25 bikes here, that means I need 25 wheels. I need 25 crank assemblies. And then, based on their lead times, they're going to place orders, planed order release for their subassemblies. And so, for spokes, it's three weeks. For the tires, it's two weeks. It's one, two, three, four for the sprockets, if you can see what I end up with. So all of these green levels are the ordering plans for their items. Now this is just for 25 bikes in one week, I probably have some demand here, demand here, demand here. And so, realistically, all of these periods would be filled. And I'd end up with a request for demand that I can use and solve using the fixed planning horizon methods that we've talked about. Because at the end of the day, I want to figure out how should I produce my products. Should I follow the ordering from the planned order release? Or do I use lot for lot? Do I use Silver Meal? Do I use some kind of optimal method? Now you see why we solved the fixed planning horizon problem. Because it fits in for each one of these separate areas. Because if you think about it, these don't have to be the same firm. This could be one manufacturer. This could be a wheel supplier across the world, a spoke manufacturer. Each of these could be separate companies. So what the MRP does, it allows me to communicate between these different entities. So I'm able to communicate, if I want 25 bikes in week eight, this is what you have to do. And it's a way of rippling the information from the end item to all the vendors going upstream to all those subassemblies.
