So let's run some scenarios using the spreadsheet we developed for the Dire Wolf problem. And what we want to do is see how these levers change if I change the costs. So for example, if I change the cost of hiring or firing someone, what effect does that have? If I change the cost of overtime, the cost of outsourcing, things along those lines. Because the levers you use pretty much dictate the strategy. We talked about two types of strategy, the two extremes. One is the chase and the other is level production. And the chase, remember, is where I'm using whatever capabilities I have to produce exactly what I need that period, and that's kind of using my overtime, my outsourcing, my backlog, to adjust my production to chase, or match, my demand. The other strategy is that level production where I want to build and kind of keep it level and I'll use my inventory pre-built to kind of handle the demand fluctuations. So the strategy is pretty much determined by what levers that I use and those levers pretty much are determined by the costs. So we're going to do four scenarios, we want to pile one on top of the other, and I'm just going to use the optimization model. So the first scenarios where I cannot fire anyone. This is a very realistic situation in many cities, countries where you have very strong labor laws. Now I could adjust the model by restricting where no one can be laid off, but instead, what I can do is make it very expensive. So I made it a million dollars here and then I just solve the optimization. So we can see what the cost is, but that's, like I said, the least interesting part of the spreadsheet. What's interesting is it tells us what our plan should be, what our aggregate plan is. One thing you should notice right away-- workforce is very steady. Right? And we're not going to be hiring a lot of people because it's very expensive to fire them. The other thing you can see is the result of that, we have a buildup of inventory. When? We're going to keep that fairly constant so that during those spring months when the demand is low, we're going to have a lot of extra capacity there. So I'm going to build extra inventory ahead of time that I'm going to then use throughout the rest of the year. So you see that I keep my workforce constant, overtime periods are happening in periods 2 and 12 that I don't want to add more people so I'm going to bleed into three areas. First, I'm going to go into outsourcing. I'm going to outsource a piece of it, I'm going to backlog a piece of it, and I'm also going to use some overtime because that's a very heavy month, 2,800. That's one of my highest months. So you can see what we're doing here. The costs are dictating a mixed strategy of where I do some advanced production. I keep that production steady because it's so expensive for me to fire someone. Also notice that I'm under-producing in my production lines because if you look here, this is saying how much capacity I have and you'll notice that for each of these months, let's see here, for month five, I'm only producing 780 internally, but I have the capacity for more than that. I'm just choosing not to use it but I'm not going to fire anyone. So essentially this is like a slow down during that month. So this is what the model is saying if I had a situation where really can't let people go. Well what happens if we add to that where we can't outsource either? So not only are we very expensive for firing, I can't outsource. Now remember, we did a lot of outsourcing in the previous for one, we had 5,000 units that ended up being outsourced. So this is going to shift some things. First we're going to have slightly more people, we're gonna hire some people and I'm forcing it to go back down. That's why we have seven people being fired because I'm forcing that to happen. So at each, about a million dollars each, so this cost, realistically, would be about $3.975 million. So let's see what else is it doing? It's growing the workforce. I have to have a little more internally because I lost one of my levers. I'm not able to outsource because I made that really, really expensive. So look at the production. Very steady state. This is almost a forced level production because I took away two of the major things I can do to be flexible. I can't increase my amount of workers or decrease. I can't go to outsource. My only other options-- look at amount of overtime. Workers will love this. Right? You've got a lot of overtime hours. It's expensive, but that's the only way I can handle a lot of the demand. And also I'll be having to backlog amount. OK so this is the second scenario where I can't lay anyone off and I can't outsource. But now let's say overtime's expensive, so I'm making it more and more restrictive. So what is the result here? Well I'm going to produce as much as I can internally. My workforce has gone up so I'm hiring more and then again I'm forcing the firing at the very end because I have that set to 36. So we could actually take 10 million. This is closer to 3.8 million. And so what I've done is I've put a really high cost on overtime time in the outsourcing. So again I took another piece or lever they can use for flexibility, this overtime hours. So what's happening? I'm producing a lot more, I'm building up a lot more inventory, during these slow times that'll last me throughout the rest of the year and I'm utilizing this backlog, which is the only piece of flexibility that I still have left to me. So you can see that the inventory increased dramatically from the first ones. It's almost half a million dollars now. And that's the price you're paying by not having that flexibility to go do a chase strategy. Now here's one last one, and again I just layered it on. I can't lay people off. I can't outsource. Overtime's expensive. But I did make the manufacturing more efficient. What I did is here I changed it from 4 to 3.5. So the amount of time it takes in hours went from 4 hours per unit to 3.5. What did this do? Well the workforce grew but not nearly as much, because they're more efficient. So you can see how this would naturally reduce my need for workforce as you get more efficient. Think automation. Think better processes. As you do these kind of things, essentially your labor hours per unit, item produced, goes down. Some other things are production lines. Still saves very steady but notice that they're always at capacity. So they're staying steady state and you're keeping at exactly what you need. So they're being fully utilized. You're still building up inventory and using that but not as much as you were before. So these four scenarios, very quick, but what I'm trying to get you to see is the trade-offs in the balances. The optimization will make the trade-off based on the cost that you give it and so one way they we're messing with this and trying to trick and see what the effects would be at extremes is putting in these very high values or changing those values. You can see there's a lot of different options that you can try, but what I was trying to show is that the costs dictate the levers, and the levers dictate the strategy.
