We close lesson 1 on supply chain cash flows by considering specifically the working capital cash flows in the supply chain. We'll close this lesson by also looking at working capital, and specifically inventory, and considering the concept of inventory holding cost, which is used extensively in designing the physical flows in our supply chain. We'll see how that maps to the financial flows of our discounted cash flow analysis. To begin, what are the potential costs of holding inventory? Well, first of all, there's the capital that's tied up in the inventory, and that's the opportunity cost of capital. Rather than buying inventory, we could utilize that capital to generate returns in other ways in our firm. There's also operating costs. When we have inventory, there's going to be inherently warehousing costs, special equipment that's needed, obviously labor to handle it and keep track of it, and perhaps even some direct costs if we have to dispose of things at the end or hire somebody to do that on our behalf to scrap the inventory. Finally, there's another category of relevant cash flows or costs that are related to holding inventory that deal with lost revenue. So inventory over time can become obsolete or it can depreciate in real market value-- not as a depreciation of a fixed asset, because this is not a fixed asset, but it can actually lose market value. In the future, some of our items may not be as valuable, because consumers may not pay as much for them. They may deteriorate, such as fresh goods or anything with a shelf life. There may be shrinkage from theft or from damage. And finally, there could even be costs of insuring against lost revenue. These costs on the bottom, the operating and lost revenue costs, we'll lump together and call non-capital holding costs. The inventory holding cost is often turned into rate-- a rate that's a percentage of the inventory cost of the value of the inventory. And that inventory holding cost rate is used in making many inventory management calculations. Examples include economic order quantity or setting safety stock. So using that inventory holding cost rate helps us design the physical flows in our supply chain. That rate is, again, as I mentioned before, a percentage of the inventory value. And there's no standard rate. It could be as low as 5% of the value of the inventory, or it could be as high as 50%. And it could vary by different products in your firm. For example, some of them may be more perishable than others or may lose value quicker than others. But a common rule of thumb that's used in the industry is 25% if you don't know any different. And why does this rate vary so much? Well, part of it is actually very easy to calculate-- the capital cost part of this, the rate of the capital cost, is also the discount rate. So the opportunity cost of capital is exactly our discount rate of our firm. But the non-capital costs-- those operating costs and especially the lost revenue potential-- these are all estimated. And so that value, that percent, can vary widely. This inventory holding cost rate is often used to calculate cost savings when you make an inventory reduction. So here's an example. If you were to reduce inventory by 100,000 and your holding cost is 25%, of which 10% of this is capital cost and 15% is non-capital costs-- operating and lost revenue-- you might see someone calculate the savings of that inventory reduction as being 25% or 0.25 times 100,000, and that's 25,000. The question is, how would we incorporate such a holding cost in our discounted cash flow analysis? Is all of that 25,000 when you calculate it using the inventory holding cost rate-- is it relevant? And does it happen one time, is it an annuity, or is it a perpetuity? Well, first of all, in terms of relevant inventory holding costs, the capital cost is not a cash flow that's relevant for discounted cash flow projections. That inventory reduction is captured fully in the net change in working capital. If we reduce inventory, we reduce our working capital requirements, and that captures the amount fully. And the opportunity cost of the capital of the returns that would come from raising that capital by reducing inventory upfront is implicitly included in the discount rate. However, the non-capital costs-- those operating and lost revenue costs-- are relevant and projected cash flows. They're things that you want to definitely incorporate when you're coming up with your projections. So effectively, when you reduce inventory, you get that working capital cash flow upfront to reinvest, and you avoid operating expenses or lost revenue in the future, and so you'll increase your net operating profit after taxes over time. The question is, how long will that non-capital inventory holding cost be in place? Is it one time, an annuity, or a perpetuity? Well, it's not one time, because as long as the inventory reduction remains in place, the non-capital cost savings will affect our incremental income statement in each of those periods. If the reason is temporary, such as remember in the Plata Solar example, there was an automation equipment that would have to be replaced-- the inventory level is low as long as long as that automation equipment is in place, but as soon as it goes away, then the inventory returns to the current level. In that situation, the non-capital cost savings are applied as long as that inventory reduction is in place and go away when the inventory returns. But if the inventory reduction is permanent and you make a policy change and set inventory levels differently for the future as long as you can foresee and there's no reason they would go away, then that upfront working capital, that cash that's freed up, it implicitly generates returns in perpetuity. It will continue to be available to generate returns at the discount rate. And if that's the case, then the non-capital costs should also be applied in perpetuity, because as long as the capital is freed up and the inventory reduction remains in place, then those non-capital costs are also being avoided. Let's reconsider our example for Yellow River. Remember, this is a long-term policy change where the SKU, the Stock Keeping Unit, is taken away, because it's a slow-moving product. And we see that-- remember that the revenue goes down, and therefore, the cogs are reduced. But the net effect is we're going to have less profits, but we're reducing our working capital by a significant amount. And if we projected this in our free cash flows, we see that our net operating profits after taxes are down by 26,000 each year, but we get 240,000 in capital freed up initially. Is this a good initiative? Well, looking at it over three years, it's a very good initiative. Because you can see, even if you discounted these future cash flows, they would be somewhere around 60,000, 70,000. That's definitely far less than the 240,000 we get up front. But remember, this is going to be in perpetuity, because you reduce the Stock Keeping Unit now and it won't come back. Therefore, all of the sales for that particular product are going to be gone in perpetuity. So instead, you need to apply it this way. And then assuming our discount rate of 10%, that perpetuity of lost profits or less profits becomes a terminal value of negative 255,000. Adding that at the end of our period t-- period 3, in this case-- we can see that there's a much bigger negative impact over the long term from reducing the Stock Keeping Unit. Now let's see if it's going to more than offset the cash we get upfront. We now need to calculate net present value to determine if that's the case. You might want to pause and do that really quickly. OK. So the net present value-- if you type in 10% of the cash flows that are here in the future, and then we add in-- instead of subtract out, we're getting money up front-- we add in the 240,000 at the end. That gives us a net present value of negative 15,000. So in that case, we wouldn't invest. It doesn't pass the net present value test. If you did the IRR of the whole set of cash flows there, you'd get a value of 12.57%, which is greater than 10%. Which if we applied the rule from before, the IRR being above the discount rate says we should invest. So what's going on here? Well, actually-- and I note at the bottom here, if you didn't round off and use these numbers on the template here and you had a spreadsheet that was calculated in the gross margin exactly, these are rounded numbers. You might get these numbers down below. So what's really going on here is that the previous criterion was used for investments, and we're not making an investment. In fact, we're getting money upfront. We're divesting to get the 240,000 upfront. We're divesting from this Stock Keeping Unit to get money upfront. So while the MPV still calculates the value correctly, the IRR gives us a different interpretation. Because effectively, we're raising capital and paying it back with less profits in the future. So it's not good to raise capital at 12% if our discount rate is 10%. If we're normally raising capital with an expectation of getting 10% returns, we shouldn't raise capital at 12%. And you can see this by the curve. Before, our investment curves all looked like this, where the lower the discount rate, the higher the MPV, because we could more than exceed the ability to raise capital at that rate. But in this case, since we're raising capital, if we can get money at 5% or even 10%, that's better than if we generate capital by reducing the Stock Keeping Unit, which is effectively giving us money at 12%. So it's a little different when you're not making an investment to apply the IRR rule. However, in both situations, net present value being above or below 0 gives us the right decision of whether to act or, in this case, not to act. Now, we are missing one component. Remember, we have those non-capital costs that aren't explicitly accounted for here. We have considered the lost profits, but we have some savings. And so let's assume our non-capital holding costs are even a small rate of 5%. Before, we had an example at 15%. Let's just assume a 5% non-capital cost of holding, those warehousing costs, the lost revenue potential that comes from that. Then applying that, we see the 180,000 of inventory times 5% reduces our operating expenses by 9,000. Now our reduction in profit is only 19-- or actually, if we see, I added a decimal point down here-- 19.3000. So instead of 25,000 26,000 less profits each year, it's less. Therefore, our perpetuity now becomes 192,000, and therefore, the evaluation cash flow is not quite as negative. And if we calculate the net present value, it now becomes positive. And it says in this case, it is worth acting. When we incorporate those non-capital inventory holding costs to the capital we free up upfront and in general the capital for not only the inventory, but also the receivables and payables here. This ends up being a good way to generate money for our firm. And in fact, we are raising capital effectively at a 1.55% rate, which is really good compared to the 10% that we are promising to our investors now. So you can see the perpetuity helps us calculate the long-term impact of certain initiatives, such as a SKU reduction or inventory reduction. And it also-- we see an example of how sometimes inventory reductions that free up capital upfront, the net present value still calculates our value correctly, but the IRR is interpreted a little bit differently.
