So let's talk about the supply chain organization. Where does it fit into the larger corporate structure? Well, we know what falls into the function-- all these different activities, from outbound transportation down to order processing and everything in between. And we've talked about these individually. We've talked about purchasing. We've talked about transportation planning, MRP systems, sales, new product launch. All these we've talked about mainly individually. But the question is, who controls them, and how do they fit into that larger corporate function? Well, traditionally, it used to look something like this, where you'd have the President or the CEO or someone, and you'd have a level of people reporting to him or her, and they would have major functions. There was a sales and marketing, manufacturing, and maybe operations, finance. There might be some other ones I didn't list, like human resources and other things. But these are the three main that contained pieces of supply chain management activities. You see for finance, they had a lot of the things dealing with inventory control, which is all about the money, and managing the information systems. Manufacturing had all the things in supply chain management that dealt with getting product into production, including MRPs, inbound transportation, scheduling and production. And then marketing usually held all of the supply chain logistics-- getting the finished goods to the customer. This includes demand forecasting and planning, customer sales, finished goods, warehousing, new product launch, outbound transportation, all of those things. Now, about 20 years ago, things started blending a little bit. And what happened is there was a little merging of activities on the inbound side under materials management all about the logistics flow-- into the plant-- and the physical distribution-- all of the flow out from the plant to the customer. So we started seeing consolidation of different activities so you could do tradeoffs internal, and you didn't have to go between the higher level function. So it was still siloed, but there was a lot more tradeoffs being done within the inbound and the outbound. This evolved even more to where the logistics-- or this could also be supply chain, depending on the company-- it all got grouped into its own organization. And a lot of times, you see it like this, where it's a peer function along with the sales and marketing, manufacturing, and production, as well as finance. And you see all these activities fall within. Now, sometimes, you might even see that this product-- this gets thrown in as well, but it depends on the company. There's a lot of flexibility now. There isn't one organizational structure that all companies use. It really depends on a lot of different things. So what we've seen now is there's different hybrids of organizations for supply chains. Sometimes, you see it as we just showed where you have a separate function-- so logistics is a pure function along with finance, human resources, manufacturing, sales, and marketing. Or you could have it as a program where it's a separate entity, and it's something that reports into the CEO. Or what's more common-- you see it in what's known as a matrix organization. Now, why is it called a matrix organization? Well, what I have here is that the CEO has its major function-- sales and marketing, manufacturing, finance. But also reporting to them are logistics and human resources. However, there's a little bit of a difference here. Finance owns everything dealing with the finance of the firm, manufacturing. The head of manufacturing-- whether it's a VP or the Chief Manufacturing Officer, Chief Operations Officer, whatever-- owns all of the activities that happen within that function. Same thing with sales and marketing. It's called a matrix, though, because logistics now will have authority on what's known as project authority. And so for example, if they're working in the Finance department over here, they might be involved in some inventory control. So you'd have a logistics personnel within the finance company. So what does this mean for the individual? They've got two bosses. One is a dotted line this way. And different companies arrange how this is set up a little bit differently. It's known as a shared service, where logistics is important to every one of the functions, so it's shared across those functions. For here in manufacturing, you might have someone running the MRP, might be running inbound transportation. And so what we're finding is that you have teams of people acting where they have two bosses. One is the main function, and then also that shared service, that logistics. So when you come up and design something like this, there's different tradeoffs that you're looking at. One is strategic versus operational. Does the logistics and supply chain belong at the higher level? Does it sit at that same peer level as manufacturing and finance and all the other major functions? The second tradeoff you want to determine is where do the activities occur. Do they happen within its own function, logistics, or do a lot of activies occur within those individual functions? And so you want to understand where the actual work occurs. And then finally, the biggest one is whether you want to make the decision making process centralised or decentralised. And essentially, there's three questions here-- which activities in supply chain are best administered and controlled from a central headquarters location, from the chief, or which activities are best administered and controlled from more regional or decentralized locations? What's best to do centrally for everything within the company? What's best to do at all the different regions that might be slightly different from each other? And then how is the coordination made between regions, countries, business units, channels, divisions, et cetera? Because centralized, decentralized, it's not just geography. You have different business units. You have different products. So it could be that two facilities are right next to each other, but they're managed very differently-- because, for example, they're making totally different products, serving totally different markets. So why would I have the same supply chain serving both of them? So these are the types of tradeoffs and decisions you make when you're trying to design your supply chain organization. And what we'll do next is focusing on this major decision of what do I centralize and what do I decentralize.
