Hi, everybody. Let's continue by introducing some simple constraint at that point really simple into the optimization process, and still just go to the formal spreadsheet-based optimization and see how these are being solved. So let's start with the same situation that we had before. Recall that we had the prices and the starting solution. So we still have the situation when we want 10 loads on every lane. And we start with just randomly assigned ten to every carrier on everything lane. We could assign any other number. It doesn't matter. And the question, now, is what if we want a minimum of carriers on each lane? So we want to introduce a little complication, which is still very simply. And so we just want to set the minimum of 20% of the volume on each lane. You can actually solve this, too, by inspection, but just to make it clear, let's go to the spreadsheet. So this is the spreadsheet, and once you press solve, you get this type of screen. Again, recall that we are looking for c19, that is here. We want to minimize c19. It's right here. This is the cell. We still want to minimize it. And let's see what is the additional constraint that we put it. In addition to having every one of these variables integer, rather than greater than zero, we put it greater than 2. So this is the constraint here. Of course, we still need the constraint that the sum of each row is 10. This is the last constraint, and everything's integer. And once we do this, we can actually press solve, just like before. Here's the solve. And what we get is the solution. So here are the solution. You see that where we had 10-- where we had 10 before, we have 8. Where we had 0 before we have 2. Because we have a constraint. We have to give at least 2 to every one of the carriers on every one of the lanes. So the optimization tries, still, to push the big number towards the low cost. So for example, in a to b we get 8 at $500 and 2 at $525. And we get 2 at $525 because we impose a constraint on the optimization. As a result of this, the previous minimum was $19,500. The previous total cost here was $19,500. It is now $19,700. So in that sense, we got a worse solution. It's not as good as before. Remember, we are trying to minimize the total cost. Our solution is not as good as before. Is it really not as good as before? It really is as good as before, because it now fulfills another constraint. Let's go back and understand that if we minimize just cost, any constraint that we put in optimization can not improve the result. The result can be only the same or worse. So here we put a constraint on it. And the result is worst in terms of the total cost. It's not worse from the business point of view, because from the business point of view, you now have to fulfill more than minimize the cost. You want to protect yourself. There's some risk management here that you want at least two on each one of the lane. Let's now have another type of constraint. This is the same as before, the same data as before. I just added a column here just to show that what we need is 10 on each lane. It doesn't matter how many we put in. We could have done it before or not. Let's now assume that the carriers to the bidding process are not only giving the price, but they are also telling the auctioneer, the company, that there's only so much that they can give on each lane. So carrier one can give only five loads from-- five trucks from a to b. And carrier two can carry only eight loads from a to b. Carrier one on b to c, put 100-- it doesn't matter. It's a very large number. It has to be a very large number relative to the existing capacity. So we put 100 here. So basically this means that carrier one on b to c and carrier two on c to a and c to b have no capacity constraint, basically. So this number here is the maximum load that each carrier can take on a given lane. So let's see how it gets into the optimization. You look at the constraint that we have here. And there is one additional constraint. Each number here, so for example, each of these entries has to be less than this number. So this has to be less than this. And this has to be-- in the solution-- less than this. This has to be less than this, which it will be, of course, because it's a large number. This has to be this, and so on. So this brings us to this constraint. We simply say that, basically, this eight cells have to be each smaller than these eight cells. And now we actually run the optimization and we get the solution. The solution is now here, $19,925. It is also higher than the original solution that we have before. We now don't impose two on every lane. But we have capacity constraint. So a different type of constraint. So it's a different type of total cost. It's higher than the original for the same reason that we mentioned before. The carrier by the bidding process, introducing capacity constraint, constrained optimization in the solution cannot be as good as before. Because for example, before we wanted to give 10 loads to this guys, and zero to this, but we can't do that anymore, because carrier one has only five trucks available for us. He cannot carry more than five loads. So the solution is not as good as before. So this was another example, or two more examples, of constrained optimization, when we introduced constraint into the problem. Let's stop here. And we'll continue in a minute with more constraint, and a few more complications introduced into the optimization process.
