CONNOR MAKOWSKI: Hi there. My name is Connor Makowski. In this recitation, we'll be covering the EcoPants problem. We will be operating as a procurement manager, or in the place of a procurement person, and our goal is going to be to minimize costs. And we're going to be doing that following the problem statement you can see over here on the right-hand side. And if you're not familiar with the problem, I'd recommend pausing the video, reading through it, and understanding what's going on. So you can see here at the top we have our introduction statement. We have some different tables of the amount of fabric that we have for demand on our side. We have costs for that fabric from multiple suppliers, as well as capacities from each of those suppliers. And again, our goal is going to be to create a model that helps EcoPants decide on how much fabric to support or to source from each supplier. So pause for a second, make sure you really understand what's going on, and we'll come back. Now that we're back, we are going to go ahead and look over here at our Google Colab and we're going to try to code this up. So the first thing we want to do is install the scx package. So I'm going to go ahead and hit Run here. While that's running, we will talk about the next cell. So from that scx package, there's an optimization module. And from that, there is a class called model. So we're going to import that model. We're going to use that for different things inside of our optimization here. So I'm going to go ahead and hit Run. That should run pretty quick. And then the next thing we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and codify some of these matrices, or all of these matrices in simple pythonic format. So we're going to be using a list of dictionaries. Now sometimes you might use a list of lists. For conciseness and simplicity in our model, we're going to be using a list of dictionaries. So you can see the first thing we're going to do is we're going to code this supply matrix. And so you can see here we have supply, and that's going to be a list of dictionaries. You can see here at the top we have name of the supplier. So that's going to be name S1, so supplier one. And that's going to have a capacity of 500. And you can see that matches over here in this table. We're going to have the same thing for S2. That has a capacity of 300. So we're going to go on and do that for all of our suppliers. Now once we do that, we're going to go ahead and do the same thing for our demand. So if you go up to the demand table, you can see, we have different fabrics. And so for each of our fabrics, we have a certain amount of demand. So fabric one, or F1, you can see we have a demand of 396, and you can see we've codified that over here as 396. Doing that for all five of our fabrics, you can see we get this list of dictionaries representing the name of each of our demands as well as the demand at each of those fabrics, or each of those materials. Now the next thing we're going to do is we're going to model the cost table. So we scroll down here, we can see that we have a cost table. Now instead of modeling it as a list of lists, we're going to instead model it as a list of dictionaries following our standard format. So in this case, you can see, we're going to have a material name and a supplier name. So you can say supplier one and fabric one, that cost should be 167. So you can see the material, fabric one, with the supplier, supplier one, has a cost of 167. Now there are ways that we could use tabulated form, like a list of lists. But that can get a little bit confusing. And also, as we get more complex data, it can be easier for us to miss certain features, or to mess up our math, or to get some of the indices wrong. So to keep it simple in terms of our coding, again, we're going to use this list of lists. So you can see if we do that for each of the items in our cost table for all five of the fabrics, as well as all four of the suppliers, you can see that we create a pretty hefty list of dictionaries. It's not too bad, but you will notice this is a little bit longer. And there are some code ways that you could generate this using a simpler tabulated format as well. With all that said, that is our data structure here. And so I'm going to go ahead and hit Run here. So we'll create those different data-- or these different variables. So cost, then equals this list of dictionaries. So now that I have all of that, I'm going to say for each item in that cost matrix, you can see the bottom of it here, for c in cost, we're going to create a variable for the amount that we're going to flow. So this will be the amount of materials, so in this case, the amount of fabric five that we're going to flow from supplier four. So when we get to the last item in our matrix, we'll create an amount for that. Now we'll do that for all of the items in our cost matrix. And so you can see that's actually going to equal a model.variable. Again, remember we imported model from the scx package earlier. So this is just a way that we can create a variable that we can edit later. So this model dot variable. The name of it is going to be an f string. So an f string essentially lets us format variables into a string. And so you can see we're going to format in the Supplier name. So if I highlight here, you can see the c supplier name, so for each item in this cost matrix. So in this case, if we're looking at fabric five from supplier four, we would call this supplier four, and then we would have some underscores between it. And then we would have the material name, or fabric five, or F5, underscore, underscore amount. So the variable is S4, underscore, F5, underscore, amount. So the amount that we're flowing, or the amount that we're purchasing from supplier four of fabric five. Now finally, you can notice here we have what's called a low bound, and that is just a simple thing that we have in the scx package to specify a minimum boundary. In this case, that's a non-negativity constraint, meaning anything we do has to be 0 or greater. So if I go ahead and I run this, we'll go ahead and modify that cost matrix. To show you what that looks like, I'm going to add some code here. So I'm actually going to just say, print c bracket 0. So I'm just going to print the first item in the cost matrix. We're going to see what that looks like. Oops, I'm so sorry. Cost, C-O-S-T. So the cost matrix. And so you can see we actually have a material name, supplier name, a cost, and now we have a new variable called S1_F1_amt. So we have properly created that. Ideally, we'd have done that for all of our items in the matrix, which we have. So I'm going to go ahead and delete this cell now and we'll continue on to our model. So the next thing we need to do is create a model specifically. So from that model that we've imported, we're going to call that, that entire class, and we're going to initialize that. And so we're going to say the first thing we need to do is specify a name for this model and we're going to call it EcoPants P1. We are going to say we are minimizing because we're minimizing cost. So that's going to be the sense is to minimize. Now as we go about and do that, we've now created a model. And so we're going to call that my_model and we can access that later. So in this case, the first thing we're going to do is add an objective function to our model. So we're going to say my_model.add_objective and the objective function is going to be listed as fn. So we're going to say fn, so our function equals, and that's going to be model.sum. So we're going to take the summation of whatever appears inside of this parentheses here. So if I go ahead, I'm going to highlight. The sum of everything in this is what we're going to include in that objective function. So if you remember, we created a variable for amount. So the amount that we have times the cost for each item in that cost matrix. And that's going to be the objective function. So we have the amount that we're purchasing times the cost it takes to purchase it for each item in that cost matrix, and that will give us the objective function. So we're minimizing, again, the total cost we spend. Now what do we need to do next is adding constraints. So the first thing we'll do is we're going to add a demand constraint. So we have to meet all of our demand. And so we're going to say for each item in that demand list, remember we have-- let me scroll all the way up here. We have this demand list. For each item in this list, we want to make sure that we meet all of our demand for each material, or each fabric. So if I scroll back down here, we can say for d in demand, we're going to add a constraint specifically to my model. And that's going to be named another f string. So the name of that demand, so in this case, would be like fabric one, so F1 demand is the constraint name. And that's actually going to equal this particular function. So let's focus on what that's going to be from a high level first, then we'll talk about some of the code. So on this side, we'll say everything that we add up here has to be greater than or equal to our demand. So for that specific demand item. And so all of this, whatever this happens to be, has to be greater than our demand. So this just means this has to add up to be greater than our demand. And what is that? That has to be the amount that we're flowing for that specific material. So if I'm buying a certain amount of fabric one, I have to make sure that everything that I buy in fabric one has to be greater than the demand for fabric one. So if I go ahead and I look at what's happening inside of this, this is really where the magic is happening. So we're going to go ahead and use this model.sum. Now this is just a method that we can add variables together. And these are the scx variables. So in this case, we're going to say, the amount that we're flowing for each item in the cost matrix only if the material name equals our demand name. So only if the cost name is fabric one, or F1. If F1 equals the demand name for F1. And so we're going to create a constraint for each item in our demand matrix. So we'll run this first for F1 and we'll say, for each item in our cost matrix, we're only going to include the amount here if the material name equals F1, and that has to be less than my total demand for fabric one. Now I'm going to do that for fabric two, same thing. Double-check to make sure that only fabric two costs, or stuff from the cost matrix, the amounts that we're flowing from the cost matrix for fabric two, has to be greater than or equal to the demand for fabric two and so on and so forth, all the way through fabric five. Now, I would recommend if you don't fully understand this, pause it. Make sure you really understand what's happening in this because that's a core process for what we're doing here in our optimization. Moving on, the next thing we need to do is make sure that we don't exceed our supply. So our suppliers have capacity and we can't purchase more than they can produce. And so let's go ahead and add some supply constraints. So the next thing we'll do is for each item in that supply matrix, I'm going to scroll way back up again. For each item in this matrix, we want to make sure that we don't exceed the capacity for items that we've purchased from that supplier. Let's go back down to that code. So for each item in that supply matrix, we're going to add a constraint where the name of the constraint is going to be the name of the supply, underscore supply. So in this case, S1_supply is the name of this constraint. And then for that, we're going to say that's going to equal. The sum of all of these things have to be less than the capacity. So remember up here we had to exceed the demand for our demand constraint. For our supply constraint, we have to be less than or equal to our capacity. We cannot exceed it. And so what does it have to be? It has to be the amount of things that are flowing from that supplier altogether have to equal less than that capacity. So what's happening? We're taking the sum of this list right here. So it's going to be the amount that we're flowing for each c in our cost matrix if the supplier name for the cost matrix equals the name of our current supplier in this for loop. And so in this case, we might say supplier one. So we're only going to include items that are flowing away from supplier one, or flowing-- that we're purchasing from supplier one in this. And so all of the variables that we're purchasing from supplier one, all the amounts that we're purchasing from supplier one have to be less than the capacity for supplier one. And again, we'll do this in a loop. So we'll loop over all those items. So we'll say for supplier two, same thing. We'll create a new constraint that says it has to be less than the capacity for supplier two for three and four as well. Now if I go ahead and I run this, we should be able to solve our model pretty quickly. And finally, I can go ahead and show that formulation, which will just help us to validate that we've coded everything correctly. So I'm going to say, my_model.show_formulation. And before I get too far ahead of myself, I will say right here at the end, we did have a special thing we're calling my_model.solve. Now essentially that takes in everything we've added to my model, it compiles it, and it runs a specific solver, and it generates the output that you're going to see below. So anyway, let's go back to our formulation. So my_model.show_formulation. You can see here that we are minimizing, in this case, 167 times the amount we're flowing from S1 to-- the amount of fabric one we're flowing from supplier one is 167 times that amount. And you can see that's correct. If you see over here in the table, we have that amount. So we're minimizing the total cost of each of the flows on each one of these purchasing options subject to the constraint that we have to meet all of our F1 demand, and you can see all of these items here from each of the suppliers. For each of our fabrics, we are going to meet all of that demand, and that's to be greater than our 396 demand of fabric one. Now the same thing for supply. You can see here that for each supplier, we have all the fabrics leaving it have to be less than the amount of capacity for that supplier. And finally, you get a list down here at the bottom of all the variables that we've created and whether or not they're continuous, binary, integers, et cetera. So now that I've done that, I'm going to go ahead and just say, let's look at our outputs and see what we've got here. So I'm going to say, my_model.show_outputs. And you can see here our objective function is 71,716. And you can see the amount of each of the variables that we're flowing. So let's go ahead in our edX, and let's scroll down and see what's going on here. So for question one, we are going to see which component should be included in our optimization model. We do not have binary variables. We do have an objective function. We do have a demand constraint. We do have a supply constraint. And I don't know if we have anything else. We do have a non-negativity constraint, correct. So we have that for each of our flows. So I'm going to go ahead and submit this and it looks like we got it correct. So that is good news for us. And the next thing we want to do is what is the minimum total monthly procurement cost for EcoPants? So in this case, that would be our objective function. So I'm going to go ahead and copy this, Control-C, and paste it over here. I'm going to submit that answer. And it looks like we indeed did get it correct. So that would be our minimum procurement costs. And finally, in my optimal solution, which types of fabric would I suggest sourcing from supplier four? We can go here and we can look at all of the items flowing out of supplier four. And you can see here we are sourcing fabric one, as well as fabric three and fabric four from supplier four. So let's go ahead and click one, three, and four. I'm going to go ahead and submit that. And again, it looks like we are correct here. So that is great news. In any case, that should be the end of problem one, or part one specifically of the EcoPants problem. I do thank you very much for your time.
