To finish up this lesson, I want to give you a roadmap of SC2x, let you see what's coming down the pike, what you'll see for the rest of the course. So there's really four things we're doing here in SC2x. We're all talking about design, and we're going to start with the design of the physical flow, then the information flows, the financial flows, and then we'll talk about design of the supply chain organization and the metric system itself. So let me talk about each of these in turn. So for the physical flow, this is all about answering the question, how should my material flow through a supply chain? We'll approach purchase in three ways. We'll first start with modeling the problem. And you've seen these types of problems before if you've taken SC0x, which hopefully you have. We'll talk about transportation and transhipment problems, facility location problems. And then we'll combine them together in what's known as a supply chain network design problem. So we'll talk about how to formulate the problems, and then we'll talk about how to solve them. And all this solving is doing is finding a trade-off between the costs and the level of service, or different types of costs-- fixed and variable. And so we'll be using mixed integer linear programming here. And so we'll be using this a lot during this course because it's a very powerful tool. So we've modeled the problem. We'll solve the problems. And then we'll interpret them, and this is the most important part. Surprisingly, to many students, the math is the least important part. What's really important is being able to understand what it is that you've come up with, being able to relate how sensitive it is to different inputs changing, so you understand how to do sensitivity analysis. We'll make sure that you understand to use this as a decision support tool, with the accent on the word "support," because models don't make decisions; people do. So it really helps you make a decision. You shouldn't just take whatever it spits out as the thing to do. And then we'll talk about some lessons learned and things you might run into when you do network design projects in the real world. So that's the physical flow. Then we'll move over to information flow. And as you should know by now, information is the thing that connects us from suppliers to customers, from initial supplier to final consumer and even back in a closed-loop supply chain. So the three big functions that we've talked about before are the source, the make, and the deliver, and we'll talk about each of these. We'll do them in a slightly different order. We'll start with the make decisions. This is all about coordinating the production or the manufacturing with other demands. And so we'll talk about production planning, and we'll use the exact same tools that we did in the network design for physical flows. We'll be using mixed integer linear programs. We'll talk about bills of material, fixed rise in plannings, and introduce you to material resource planning and distribution resource planning systems. Then we'll move further downstream to deliver, and this is all about collaborating with customers. And again, we'll use some of the same tools when we do aggregate planning. This is for a shorter time frame, and you're trying to tie-in some other things with your customers, as well as planning for production. So it kind of extends those models that we talked about. And we'll also talk about design distribution channels, how you should flow product, depending on the situations that you're in. And we'll finish up with Sales and Operations Planning, or S&OP, which is a very widely used practice in supply chains that tie together the operations side of the business with the marketing or sales side, how do you tie those together. Then we'll go back to sourcing. Now, I'm separating these for a couple of reasons. One, this will be after the midterm, and this is where we start introducing some more qualitative aspects. So we'll talk about sourcing strategies and procurement methods, but we will also use the same mixed integer linear program and illustrate how that is sometimes used for optimization-based procurement. So we'll follow information flow from supplier, how you procure, how you make, and how you deliver and coordinate with your customer. We'll just do it slightly out of order because it makes sense thematically. Then we'll move to financial flow. And all we're doing here is helping you understand how to translate all these supply chain concepts that you've learned in previous courses and in this course-- inventory levels, facilities you have, in-sourcing versus outsourcing-- and how to translate that into language that the CFO, the Chief Financial Officer, uses. These are income statements, balance sheets, cash flows. And so we'll hit five main topics-- activity-based costing, how do you work, or working capital, the cash-to-cash cycle, discounted cash flow analysis, the idea of supply chain finance, which is more about financing supply chain operations, not just the general topic. And then different types of financial analysis do include the DuPont model and some other widely used models. But the whole objective of this financial flow section is so you can understand how the CFO looks at your business, how the CEO looks at your operations. Then we'll finish up with designing the organization, and it's simply how should a supply chain be organized. This is more of a function for larger companies. If you're a small startup, you don't have many options. But if you're a large company, you have questions about how should it be organized? Should it be by business unit? Should it be centralized for the whole company? Should I centralize or decentralize by function, by business unit, by geography, all? So there's all these questions here. And then process and performance metrics, how do I measure the performance of these different processes that I do? How do I establish a balanced scorecard? So the roadmap then, these four elements, and you can see the amount of time you'll spend in each, the most will be spent on the information flows. But we'll try to balance these all together. And the nice thing at the end of the whole course, you'll have a case study that hopefully wraps a lot of this together. So that's it. Hopefully you're going to have fun. The first week starts next week. So please use the quick questions. Try the practice problems. Use the discussion forum. Have fun.
