So let's talk about specialized heuristics for the fixed planning horizon problem. So we're going to talk about three. And we're really going to focus in on one. I'm going to focus in on the silver meal heuristic. It's also called the least cost period heuristic. And that will become obvious in a second why we call it that. But there are two other ones-- least unit cost and part period balancing-- which I'm not going to go over in detail. But they're very similar. All three are very similar in that they're all myopic heuristics. When you say something is myopic, that means it's very shortsighted. It's making a decision based on information right next to it, very small amounts of information. It's not considering the whole amount of information that you have at hand. It's making decisions based on a very narrow scope. And we'll see why that matters in a few minutes. But let's focus in on the silver meal heuristic. So the basic idea is all we're trying to do is say, OK, should I make enough in this period, in this month, to cover just this month, or should I cover the next month, too? And if I cover that one, should I cover the next month in addition? So it's making the decision, should I throw another month's forecasted demand into the current production run? The acceptance criteria here is that it looks at the total relevant cost per unit time. And remember, the total relevant cost here is simply the ordering cost or the setup cost plus the inventory holding cost. And I divide that by the number of periods that I'm covering. So we're going to keep adding in more demand, more forecasted demand periods, into my production run until the total relevant cost per unit time starts increasing. That's the whole idea behind the heuristic. So the algorithm-- and it's very precise. Because I want you to have the experience of stepping through an algorithm. We're going to start at time period one. And then we're going to set this increment n equals 0. n is simply going to be the number of time periods that I'm including in my production run. So in step three, I'm going to find my total relevant cost per unit time for period one. Then I'm going to increment my n. And then I'm going to find the total relevant cost per unit time if I produce periods one and two at the same time. Then if that total relevant cost is going down compared to the previous one, then I'm going to go to step seven, which tells me go to step four, which means, OK, set n equal to one more. See if you can throw time period three's demand into the current production run. You keep doing this until the total relevant cost of t plus n is greater than my previous total relevant cost per unit time. If that's the case, then this tells you, I'm done with that production run. Let's close it and now move to the next planned run. So talking about a heuristic or an algorithm in abstract is a little tough. So let's apply it. So I'm applying it to the gyroscope problem. And we have the 12 months of demand here that we have to satisfy. And I have the units demanded each time-- 200 in period one, 150 in period two, and so on. And I put the heuristic up in the top right corner so you can follow along. And I'm going to go kind of quickly. But you can always pause this and make sure you can do this. You should be able to understand an algorithm so that you can go by yourself step by step with pencil and paper. So we start t is 1. And that's the first column. n is 0 and that's the second column. So then I go to step three and find the total relevant cost per unit time in period one. So what if I produce enough in period one for period one? What does that mean? Well, I have a setup cost of $500. And I have no inventory holding cost. Because I'm going to use all the product that I produce. And I don't get charged holding cost unless it's kept over for an additional month. OK, now I go to step four. I increment my n to be 1 now, 0 plus 1. And so now I find my total relevant cost per unit time for producing enough in period one to cover the demand in period one and two. So what would that be? Setup cost of $500 plus 150 units kept one month extra to satisfy the demand in period two. I divide that by 2, and I get $325. Now I go to step six. Is the total relevant cost per unit time in period two greater than that in period one? No, so I go to step seven, which says, go to step four, which means I increment: n is now equal to 2. So now I want to see, should I include period one, two, and three in what I've produced in time period one? Should I produce enough for those three periods? If I did that, what would my total relevant cost per unit time be? Well, I've got my $500 setup cost. And I have to keep 150 units for one month for period two. And I have to keep 100 units two months to take care of period three. Sum that up, divide by 3, I get $283. Now I'm at step six. And I look, is the total relevant cost in time period three greater than that in time period two? No. I go to step seven, which then takes me to step four. I increment n to n plus 1. So now I'm trying to determine, should I produce enough for time period four as well? What's the total relevant cost? $500 for the setup cost for time period one plus my inventory holding cost-- 150 units for one month for time period two plus 100 units for two months for time period three, 50 units three months for time period four. Sum that up, divide by 4, you get $250. I'm at step six now. Is $250 greater than $283? No. I go to step seven, go to step four. See how this works? It gets pretty repetitive. This is why we have computers do this, and we don't do this by hand too often. Now I'm trying to determine, do I want to produce enough for periods one through five from period one's production run? What's the cost? $500 for that one-time setup plus the inventory holding cost for periods two, three, four, and five. And you see, for example, for the 50 units demanded in period five, I'm holding them for four months. So I'm getting charged for each one of those months. What's my total relevant cost per unit time? $240. I'm at step six. Is $240 greater than $250? No. So I go to step seven, it takes me to step four. Now I'm trying to see, should I produce enough for month six as well? And you look at the total relevant cost-- again, one time setup plus inventory holding cost for periods two, three, four, five, and six. Sum that up, divide by 6-- because I'm covering six periods. I get $283. Now, is $283 greater than $240? Yes. So what does this mean? That means I want to produce enough up to here. So I'm going to make 550. And I'm going to produce that in period one to cover up through period five. So I'm making 550 units in month one. Now, in step 6a, that told me to make to 550 units. Step 6b says, OK, my t is 1. I'm going to add n to it-- 5. So now I want to find out, how much do I produce in month six? Because I've already taken care of all the demand for months one to five. So now I go to step two. And what does that do? That sets my n back to 0. So now I've got my t is 6, my n is 0. And I start all over again, except I'm trying to figure out, sitting in month six, what does this mean? How much do I produce? If I produce just enough for month six, what are my costs? $500 setup cost and no inventory holding. So then I go to step four. What is n? Increment by one and say, well, what if I increase, and I want to produce for period six and seven? Then in that case, I have my setup cost of $500 plus 150, because that's the amount in period seven that's demanded that I have to keep for an extra month. Divide that by 2, because I'm covering two months. And that gets $325. Is $325 greater than $500? No. So I go to step seven, which takes me to step four. And now I want to increase my n. So my n is 2. And now I'm trying to see, do I want to include the demand for period six, seven, and eight in my production run in month six? And so on and so on. You see here that this turns for month eight, that that is indeed greater than $325. So I cut it off. And I'm going to produce 250 units in month six. And now I want to figure out, how much do I want to produce in month eight? And so it goes on. And so I did this all out. And you can look at this by hand to make sure that what you do by paper matches what I have, and should have that you do a production run in month six, in month eight, and as you go forward in month 10, and then finally in month 12. So you end up with a production plan. And all you're doing-- it's pretty simple. The bookkeeping is complicated when you go through an algorithm by hand. But all you're doing is saying, should I include next period's demand in this production run or not? If so, then I try-- well, should I do the next one? It's making that myopic decision month by month, period by period. So at the end of the day, you end up with this production plan. My inventory holding cost will be about $1,350. Setup cost, since I have five different production runs, is about $2,500. It gives me a total cost of $3,850. And you can see when the production is. And this matches what I just transcribed from doing the heuristic. So how does this compare? So I have my simple heuristics up here, the first four rows, and then the silver meal. It looks like the silver meal is the least expensive one. It doesn't always happen that way. But it generally produces better results. The silver meal algorithm tends to produce better results than these very simple heuristics. And as you would expect, that means a lower average inventory on hand. And the inventory turns are higher. Remember, a higher turn ratio is better. Because it means the product is moving at a faster velocity. Some of the cons, though-- there's no guarantee of optimality, or my proximity to optimality. So for this, it doesn't guarantee. It's still a heuristic. Remember, a heuristic is just a rule of thumb. It doesn't guarantee optimality. Now, I talked about the other specialized heuristics, the least unit cost and part period balance. And they're very similar to the approach that we just did, except the criteria is different. For silver meal, our criteria of whether to add the next month in the production run or not was whether the total relevant cost per unit time went down. For the least unit cost heuristic, the criteria is, does the total relevant cost per item go down? So instead of dividing by number of time periods, it divides by the number of items produced. So it's the same kind of approach. It's a myopic approach. And you're deciding period by period whether to include it in your run. And finally, the part period balance-- same approach. I look month by month. And my criteria is, if I add the next period's demand into my run, does the inventory holding cost equal my order setup cost? Because remember, think back to economic order quantity/ when your holding cost matched your order setup cost, then that's the point of optimality. So it uses that to guide its heuristic. But all three of those algorithms follow the same approach in that they're myopic, and they're making their decision period by period. But we'll learn, it sounds like a bad thing. But it isn't necessarily a bad thing.
