So let's analyze the results of the WUWU multicommodity flow problem. This is what we ended up with. Our objective function was 6,525; and you can see all the values for the decision variables in the two rows at the bottom in the yellow, the plane to DC flows, as well as the distribution center to region flows. Let's look a little deeper, though. So graphically, what I show here is how each product flows from plant through DC to end customer. So let's spend a second look at this. It looks like Chicago and Dallas are producing all three of the products in the optimal solution. Miami is only producing product three. It looks like Chicago only distributes product to Boston, while Dallas splits it between Boston and Atlanta. And Miami only delivers through Atlanta. New York is single sourced from Boston, while both Pennsylvania and Virginia are dual sourced from Boston and the Atlanta DC's. OK, so we have a feel for it, and so we have the solution. But I can cut the results a slightly different way and come up with other pieces of information that we need. For example, the production plant. The model is telling me that Chicago, for example, should produce 125 units of product one, 200 of two, 50 of product three, and the same thing for each of the other plants. And it also tells me how I want to move my product, not by part but total, to each of the distribution centers. It also gives me the flow through the DC's for each of the types of products and then on to each of the regions. So I can aggregate the data in many different ways to come up with different answers of the questions that I'm looking for. But let's look into something specific. Let's look, specifically, at the total landed cost, and in this case, for total landed cost, I mean the logistics cost from the plant through the DC to the final customer destination. So let's look at, overall, of the system. What's the average total landed cost for the widgets? This is easy. I take the total cost from the optimal solution $6,525; divided by the total number of widgets that flowed through, according to my model, and I get $10.04 per widget. Now, I can also look at it for each widget type. This is easy, again, since I don't have any fixed costs. I didn't put any fixed costs if I opened the Boston DC or opened the Atlanta DC. If I did, it would get even more complicated. But let's keep it simple for right now. So with no fixed costs, all I need to do is sum up the cost of flow of each of the variables or each of the product types. For widget one, it's 2,245. Widget two is 2,225. For widget three, it's 1,875; and divide it by the respective quantities. And I get the cost, unit cost per each of the widgets. These were easy. Let's get a little more complicated. What if I wanted to know, for a certain region, for each product type, what is the total landed cost? This is more difficult. The flows aren't always separable. So let's do an example. Let's look specifically at Pennsylvania, and we're going to go through and see the total landed cost for widget type one, widget type two, and widget type three. All right, so the first one, widget type one. This one's pretty easy because if I look at this, where does Pennsylvania get its widget ones? Well, looks like it comes through Atlanta- excuse me, through Boston and from Chicago. So all of the product for widget one is going to come this way. Therefore, the total landed cost is simply going to be the amount demanded by Pennsylvania, which was 75 times the cost of moving from Chicago to Boston to Pennsylvania, which is 5 plus 6, or 11. So this comes out to be $11 per unit, $825 total. That was easy. So now, let's move on to product two. Product two, for Pennsylvania, it looks like it comes in two different paths. Some come from Boston, which come from Chicago, so I have some coming this way. And I also have some coming from Dallas to Atlanta coming this way. How much of each? Well, I know that I've got 50 coming in from Boston to PA, and I know I've got 25 coming in to Atlanta to Pennsylvania. So therefore, I know the amount for each flow. So it's just taking a blended average. So I'm going to have 50 units times the cost from going to Chicago to Boston for product two, plus 25 times the cost from going from Dallas to Atlanta and then on to Pennsylvania for product two. And I get $10.33 per unit. So again, that wasn't too hard. We just had to take an average because we knew how much was coming in for each path. The paths were separate. Let's look at widget three now. And so for widget three, looking at Pennsylvania, how do I get product? Well, it could be manufactured in Chicago. shipped to Boston, and then on to Pennsylvania. It could be manufactured in Dallas, shipped to Boston, and then on to Pennsylvania. Or it could be made from Miami to Atlanta and in. Now the question here, I need to know how much of each type. And the challenge is some of it goes through Boston, and so I don't know how to allocate the cost for the inbound to the outbound that's going to Pennsylvania. So let's look a little closer. So here's the same situation, and what I want to figure out is how much goes in this path that I called x, how much is going in this path y, and how much is going in this path z because I know the cost of each of the individual pads. I just have to figure out the x, y, and z. And I know that some of them is 150 because that's what I demand for product three in Pennsylvania. So let me clean this up. So I know I need 150 units of widget three, and I know from the model, it tells me how much comes from each of the distribution centers into Pennsylvania- from Boston, 100, from Atlanta, 50. OK, so this helps me a little bit. So now I can backwards calculate, since, for Atlanta, they only get product three from Miami, I know that z, the amount that's going this path is going to be 50. So 50 of the units cost $8 per unit. So the challenge now is figuring out the ones that come through Boston. So how do I allocate this because it looks like 50 and 75, 125 come in, and 25 of it, 25, goes to New York. So we don't use all of it. So the question is how much of Chicago's is going to New York? How much is going to me in Pennsylvania? Same thing with Dallas. So let's give three examples that I could do, three possible cases. The first, I say 50-50. 50 units come from Chicago, 50 from Dallas, so that would give me a blended cost for these 100 units of $10 per unit. Now, I could also say, just on of the other extreme, I only take 25 from Chicago, and I take 75 coming from Dallas. Therefore, my blended average would give me $10.50. But we could also make the argument for any numbers in between, for example, I could say, well, if 125 units come out of Boston, and I use 100 of them, that's 80%, 100 over 125. So therefore, shouldn't I use 80% of the Chicago product and 80% of the Dallas product? And if I do that, then I come out with something in the middle $10.20 per unit. So which do I pick? This is where it gets into interesting accounting techniques because what we're doing is we're really trying to allocate which flows get accumulated and aggregate which product. And we'll talk about this in detail in a future lesson. But what I wanted to point out here is that it is somewhat arbitrary. Because when products come in, we don't know that every one of the Chicago ones goes to Pennsylvania. When they get to Boston, they're all now the same. They're all fungible within product three. So they come here, and then we've got to determine which ones to use. And it's really an accounting issue. So once I picked one of these, then I will find the total landed cost doing 50 of them at eight, and say, if I went with this allocation, I'd have 100 at $10. And then I could find easily what the total landed cost would be for widget three. But the key point I want to bring out here is that it's a little more complicated, especially when you have these bundling constraints, or these blended, or these interactions. All right, let's sum up multicommodity flow problems because this is what you really see in practice. So the formulation is very similar to single flow models. It's a transshipment model. It's not that more complicated in theory, in pieces. However, it gets much more complicated when you have bundling constraints, when the different commodities interact, when there are fixed costs, and capacity restrictions because then the volume of one commodity will influence what the other commodity can do. So there will be trade offs between commodities. There will be multiple flow paths, which makes the costing much more complicated. And of course, the size of the problem gets huge. So it really blows up. So these are some of the complications you'll see with multicommodity flow problems. However, there is one piece that we totally ignored, and this is the fundamental question- how many products should I model? And so we know that companies can have thousands or tens of thousands of SKUs. Should I model each one separately? Or should I model them all together? Should I capture all 10,000 SKUs and how they flow? This is a question about what we do in practice, so I'm going to hold off on answering that question to a later lecture. But I want you to think about this because the answer is somewhere in between- I model all of them individually in one big multicommodity flow, or I model everything as one product. And the answer is somewhere in the middle.
