OK. What are the key takeaways from this lesson? We covered a lot of ground, actually. But we kind of went really deep into one certain area. So we started off talking about master planning schedules. And we explained how that fits in with the MRP, material requirements plan, and the DRP, the distribution requirements plan. And the MPS, it's not a forecast. It's really a plan for how you're going to meet that forecast. So we'll talk later about how we get the inputs to that. But what we'll do in our next lesson is understand how the interface works between MRP systems and DRP systems. We also talked about how manufacturing strategy influences the plan. We talked about engineering to order, manufacture to order, assemble to order, and then make to stock. And so all those different plans of those different strategies dictate what it is that you're going to plan for. And we looked at different strategies, chase, level, and hybrid. Chase is where I produce exactly what I need when I need it. Level is I try to keep my production plan steady state. There's a lot of value to having stable production. But then my inventory levels will fluctuate versus a hybrid approach, which is more common where you pick and choose what makes the most sense. And we focused more on the fixed planning horizon problem. We dove pretty deep, because my real reason for diving into some of these, I wanted to expose you to two main concepts. First, the idea of heuristics in algorithms. I wanted to make you step through an algorithm, because this is what we take for granted when we throw something into a computer, because all that the computer's doing is doing a step-by-step process. And so I wanted to go through the painful details of the Silver-Meal just to make sure you understand how an algorithm works. Also, I wanted to highlight sometimes a myopic heuristic will give you a better result in practice than an optimal model. And it's mainly because optimization looks at the whole time frame and treats it all equally. And it might end up with a solution that's very brittle, that's very dependent on certain values not changing. Myopic heuristics, on the other hand, are myopic. So they only look at very close time periods. Sometimes in environments where there's a lot of change, they will give you better real world solutions. The optimal solution will always be optimal, given the assumptions don't change. The challenge is in real life, they change a lot. So talked a little bit about all these different systems. And what we'll do next is see how they tie-in to the other systems that determine how I work with my vendors and suppliers and how I work with my customers. So please work the quick questions. Work the practice problems. Use the discussion forum. And so hopefully you're not as confused as Wilson is, although after you've ran through the Silver-Meal algorithm, hopefully you understand it.
