In this lesson, we'll continue our discussion of designing the information flow and supply chain by focusing in on how sales and operations connect. Now remember our overarching question is how do we use information to coordinate the different activities of all the different players and stakeholders in the supply chain? And so previously, we've talked about procurement. We've talked about how you work with your vendors through better sourcing, sharing of risks. We've also talked about how you can tie this together with production, and we mainly talked about master production scheduling, also MRP, Material Requirements Planning. And now we're going to focus in on the interface here. And this is how operations, or production, that's really this is sometimes just called operations, ties in with the demand side, or the sales side. And this is mainly going to be the sales and operations planning process S&OP. We'll finish off this discussion in a later lesson, where we'll focus on the interface with the customer and how you collaborate. But for this lesson, we're going to focus right in here. So traditionally, this process has been very siloed. This isn't a real word, but it's used very often. If things are in a silo, that means they're kept separate from each other. So it used to be the business planning would be set up by the senior executives, they come up with their strategy. This would get fed to the sales team, and they would do their demand planning, their forecasting, and management to determine what they think they could actually sell. They would come up with a sales plan that would fit and be handed to the production planning team. They would take this as input, and then they would then determine what their capacity plan, their scheduling, and their management. You notice that this arrow is typically a one-way street. So you'd be handed the sales plan, and your job was to make sure you can produce what they think they can sell. This would then turn into a massive production schedule that everyone would tend to use to make those decisions of available to promise, or how much I can commit, things like that. And what we're talking about when we talk about an integrative process, a lot of the players are the same. We still have capacity planning and scheduling. We still have demand planning and forecasting. There's still some strategic planning for the business side, and there's still going to be an MPS, a Master Production Schedule. The big difference, though, is when the strategy comes down, it doesn't go to sales then production, or sales then operations. It's tied together, and they're met jointly. And so the plan comes down in sales and operations jointly try to understand what it is that can be done. So these feed out to those processes, and, again, we get the master production schedule. Now this might look totally trivial to you, if you haven't been an organization that's of a significant size. You don't need an S&OP process if you're your own company. Because you are sales, you are operations, you could meet with yourself, you don't need a process. But when companies get bigger, they get very much siloed, so you have a whole team here working on operations, the production, the transportation, supply chain, and then the whole marketing, sales team over here. And you have to force them to get together. And so what this S&OP, the sales and operations planning process, is a formal way to make that happen. And it provides visibility. So sales knows what operations is doing, what their capabilities are, and operations knows what sales expectations and what their capabilities are. So it's really a communication process. So what are we going to talk about in this lesson? We're going to cover three big things. I'm going to talk about aggregate planning, because this is the main tool that you want to use for communicating some of these decisions between sales and operations. We'll develop the model. We'll do an example with Dire Wolf. And then we're going to go into fundamentals of sales and operations planning and focus in on how you manage supply, how you manage demand, again, using some this aggregate planning models that we're going to develop. Finally, I'll talk a little bit about the process for actually implementing a sales and operations process within your firm. This is a huge literature, and there's a lot of other references out there that I could point you to as well, but we'll go over the basic steps. So let's get started.
