Hi, welcome to the supply chain finance module. In this segment, we're going to talk about capital asset or expense when it comes to recording transactions. As I have suggested in prior segments, accounting professionals have a number of choices when recording certain transactions. One in particular is the area of product costing and the choices are how to allocate overhead and how to categorize expenses. Additionally, the accountant can choose among different appreciation rates and also decide which expenditures will be treated as period expenses, or as capital asset purchases. Keep in mind that the accountant ought to be making these decisions with the guidance from the business but keeping consistent with generally accepted accounting principles, also known as GAP. In this segment, we will address the latter option of asset or expense categorization. Now, some expenditures can possibly be treated as either a period expense or a capital asset. If treated as a period cost, it means recording the expenditure as a cost for that accounting period, which increases reported costs on the income statement and lowers taxable income. If the expenditure is treated as a capital asset, it means that the funds expended would show up not as an expense on the income statement, but as an asset on the balance sheet. Choosing the capital asset option can make the income statement look better because there would be lower expenses and, therefore, higher income. But that also comes with an obligation to pay more taxes. The real question for the accountant and the businesses is what's the best way to fairly represent the transaction? If the purchase will provide the business with lasting value to the firm, it may be more accurate record the purchase as a capital asset which would reflect higher assets for the firm compared to recording a transaction as an expense. Let's look at a few examples to show how this would affect the income statement and balance sheet. And keep in mind that many of the assets are those that will be used in the supply chain. In this instance, we see that the firm purchases a machine for $25,000 on December 31st with the intention that it would be used as a prototype. This could be treated as an expense or as a capital asset purchase. Now, let's walk through this. In this particular case, the prototype purchase is being considered as an expense. Well, apparently the assumption by the business would be that it's useful in their first year and beyond that it does not have lasting value to the firm. Well, in that particular case, in year one there is no impact on revenue but there is a change in expense, because that $25,000 would be recorded as a period expense and listed as $25,000 part of the operating cost. Now, this results in a negative $25,000 impact on net income. Now, on the balance sheet in your one, there are two offsetting transactions. Because it was paid for in cash, there is a drop in the current asset cash balance of $25,000. This is offset on the other side of the balance sheet with a drop in the owner's equity of $25,000. Now, because this was recognized as an expense in year one, there are no other transactions to record in year two. Now, let's look at this same purchase and treat it as a capital asset. Perhaps, the logic here would be that the machine while only a prototype could provide long term value to the firm by helping the firm understand its use and the potential development of future products by the company. So one could make that argument. Now, let's walk through this particular case. On the income statement in year one there is no impact on revenue, operating cost or profit or net income because there are no expenses to report and there's no impact on revenue. On the balance sheet in year one, however, there are again two offsetting transactions. Again, because it was paid for cash, there is a drop in the current asset cash balance of $25,000. This is offset in the long term asset category by an increase $25,000. Again, because we are now adding that $25,000 prototype as an asset and, therefore, we record it as an asset on the books. Now, there is no impact on liabilities or equity in your one. Now, in year two we take into consideration depreciation. Now, you may say, wait a minute-- hold on, not so fast, here. Why don't we include depreciation in year one? Well, in this case, the purchase was made on the last day of December-- December 31st-- and it would not be reasonable to charge a depreciation expense for the entire year when there was only one day of possible use out of 365 days. This is, of course, assuming that their fiscal year is the same as the calendar year. Charging one day of depreciation expense for such an item would fall into the category of an immaterial transaction. But in your two, there should be a depreciation expense recognized. Now, in this case, it appears that the firm has decided that the prototype would provide value for a five year period. Why? Well, because we know that the asset is worth $25,000 and if they're depreciating $5,000, well, they're doing that over a five year period. Now, as we see here, again, assuming that would be using the straight line depreciation method. So in the income statement of year two, we'd see this depreciation expense of $5,000 which results in a decrease in the netting income of $5,000. Now, on the balance sheet in your two, once again there are two offsetting transactions. There is a decrease in the long term asset value $5,000. Why is that? Well, because this is reflecting the reduction in the value of that prototype. It started out being worth $25,000, now, after we take into account the $5,000 expense for use of that prototype in your two, it is now worth $20,000. So this reflects a reduction in the value of that prototype on the books. This is offset on the other side of the balance sheet with a drop in the owner's equity of $5,000 as well. So the same transaction-- a purchase of a prototype for $25,000-- can result in very different financial records, depending on the assumptions and treatment decisions made by the accountant, again, in conjunction with the business. So let's talk about key points. Certain expenditures can be considered capital asset purchases or purity expenses. And this reflects, of course, one of the choices that the account has, again, in conjunction with the business leadership-- I keep saying that because it's important. The accountant must work hand in hand with the business leaders to make consensus decisions about what the proper treatment is for these different transactions. And as we've just seen in this example, depending on the method used for recording those transactions, you get very different results. And as supply chain managers, we need to understand the possible ways that the financial reports are recording and reporting the assets as well as the expenses of the business. If you have any questions, comments, or discussions, please use the discussion area. And I look forward to working with you in a future segment. Thank you.
