OK, no more figures of merit. We've now covered the fundamental concepts and calculations to evaluate our supply chain initiatives. However we've considered those supply chain cash flows for a given period through period t. Some of our supply chain initiatives may have longer term value and we still want to apply the concepts of time value of money and discounting to that longer term value which we call terminal value. Before we get to terminal value, let's revisit salvage value which again we've introduced before as the proceeds that come from selling off fixed assets or recovering working capital at the end of our cash flow projections. So if it's assets like property plant and equipment, one thing we didn't specify exactly earlier and didn't cover is there may be tax implications. So if the sale price is not equal to the book value that we've depreciated those assets down to, then there would be taxes that aren't captured in the Notepad. Remember the Notepad captures our income statement and this is related to the balance sheet, so we would want to make sure that any salvage value accounts for the tax implications. So it's the sale price minus taxes, the tax rate times the difference between the sale price and the book value. So if we sell our assets for more than book value, this tax rate would be positive so we would have to pay taxes. It's also the case that if our sale price is below book value, that would give us a negative value in this term here and therefore be a positive addition meaning that reduces our tax burden. For working capital, we also have to think about that at the end of the projected period t because if an initiative ends, then the working capital requirements will return to the original levels before the initiative began. So in that case there is a recovery of that working capital at the end of period t. To illustrate this, let's go back to the example of White Nile. Remember we were the online retailer that is building a new warehouse to provide better service, and increase sales from that better service. We've captured all the cash flows here and if you note, we did talk about salvage value here. So we bought this warehouse, we built the warehouse and added equipment for $5 million, we depreciated it for three years using straight line depreciation and the straight line depreciation was applied over 10 years so it's $500,000 a year. And if you take that $5 million minus the $1.5 million that's of depreciation, we get this $3.5 million which is actually the book value. So this one would not need to be adjusted for taxes but if we believe that we would sell it for more or less than $3.5 million, we'd have to adjust it for the taxes. We've also got the inventory we put in the warehouse in the beginning and we recovered that inventory at the end because it returns to original levels, assuming that the warehouse goes away. We also now have the tools to be able to evaluate things. Before we just projected the cash flows and so we've got our bottom line free cash flows here. Let's go ahead and evaluate this initiative and see if it's a good idea. We need one more piece of information though to do that and that's the discount rate. So assuming a discount rate of 10%, why don't you pause the video and calculate the net present value and the internal rate of return. OK hopefully you've done your calculations. Let's begin with net present value using the discount rate of 10%. That value is 116. So if it's a positive value we would decide to proceed with this initiative. However it's not a very big value, 116 compared to the $5.6 million up front that we're having to put into the warehouse and the inventory so it seems like it's not a very strong investment. It meets their criteria but it's not a very high return, not a very high value above what the expectations of our investors are. And the IRS shows this, right? If the discount rate of 10% it's a feasible project but if we even had a discount rate of 11% a little bit higher, this would no longer be an attractive initiative for our investors. However, this is a warehouse that would probably last longer than three years. So we would may want to capture that longer term value of the warehouse. That's an example of one of the kinds of value that's created over the long term, is that we may have a supply chain that creates value beyond the period t where we're projecting our cash flows. So it may be assets like this warehouse that continue to create value as long as we maintain them properly. Even more important, there are some managerial changes that we often make in our supply chain that wouldn't have a life span at all and wouldn't require any maintenance but they continue to create value long after our period that we may be projecting cash flows, such as an inventory policy change, reduction of a stock keeping unit that we no longer will carry, we may change our transportation mode mix that causes a different cost basis that would continue as long as that policies in place. So those longer term values we want to make sure we capture as well. So basically we're thinking about two time spans when we're doing our cash flow projections. We have through period t where we specify unique cash flows through period t. Anything beyond period t, we would have to assume that they are stable cash flows beyond that period into the future and then calculate a value of those stable cash flows. So basically you're defining a period t in which there are some unique aspects. Once you get to that point and they're stable, then we'll try to summarize all of those future cash flows with the terminal value. So the terminal value is also called residual value. It's the present value of all the cash flows that occur after the projected period or beyond period t. There are a couple questions. First of all, how long? There are two options to consider here. One is a perpetuity, which estimates the value of stable cash flows that continue indefinitely or infinitely. The other is estimating stable cash flows for a definite period time into the future. The second question, is how stable? We can consider a situation where those stable cash flows don't grow at all or they could be stable but growing in a linear way. Now we're not going to assume--the safer assumption in our calculations is to assume no growth and we're going to go with that. Trying to assume what the growth would be in the future requires more thought and so we're not going to focus on that here and we're going to take the more conservative approach and assume for all of our exercises, that there's no growth. But we do want to capture that value well into the future with a perpetuity or an annuity. So the question is, how do we calculate that value? So beginning with the perpetuity it's in some ways a concept because it's saying that you're going to theoretically receive cash forever and it's difficult to think about something going to infinity but in mathematics we do this often, we have what we call an infinite series. And in this case, it's an infinite series of a cash flow c that keeps happening in period one, two, all the way out to infinity. We can't even write this out because we can't write an infinite number of terms but it's a mathematical series that we can calculate easily the value and that is because it converges to the value of c over r. So the cash flow divided by the discount rate gives us the value of a series of cash flows that would happen forever into the future. So it's actually a lot simpler than you might think. An annuity, it's the same kind of thing, you're having a fixed sum c that comes each year but it's for a specified number of years. So in this case again you get this value c all the way through period t but then it stops, it doesn't go to infinity. To calculate that it's a little bit trickier but actually we can use the perpetuity to help do this, so if we assume that we have a perpetuity beginning in period one so basically if we say in the present value that in period one it begins and we have another one in period two the way out to infinity, that value is c over r. So that's starting at time zero, the present. If we had a perpetuity beginning starting at period t, so all the cash flows beyond t so we have t plus 1 and t plus 2, and so forth on to infinity, the value of that perpetuity at time t would also be c over r but the value in today's terms at time zero, would be c over are discounted by that period t to be the time zero. Now using those two assumptions we can calculate the value of annuity because an annuity is exactly all those cash flows that happen between now and t, so if we subtract this minus the discounted value here, we get the exact value of this annuity in between. We can also use a spreadsheet function The spreadsheet function present value pv you have to input the rate r, the number of periods, t, and the payment, c. And that will calculate the value of an annuity. It actually though calculates the value you would pay to purchase the annuity, so the present value of an annuity is actually a negative of the present value function. It's a bit of a quirky thing with a spreadsheet that it's used for a lot of calculations for retirement and so forth, where they're saying how much would you pay to buy an annuity? In this case we're looking to estimate the present value of the annuity so we have to do a negative value of that. So let's do a simple example. Let's assume c equals 10. The value of a perpetuity and let's assume we have a discount rate of 10%, actually let's say c equals 100 and we have a 10% discount rate. Our perpetuity value would be equal to 100 divided by 0.10 equals 1,000. Simple calculation. For an annuity, considering algebraically we could type it into Excel. And again we have our rate of 0.10, we have 10 periods in the future let's assume it's still a cash flow of 100. You'll see that that present value is a lot lower than it is for perpetuity because in paying out the annuity, you also utilize the capital and it goes down to 0. So you don't need as much capital up front to keep the payment going forever. So it's a lower present value than the value of a perpetuity. So let's apply this to White Nile. Remember we had our warehouse that was going to be sold after three years at book value and we had a bit of a marginal investment. It's something worth pursuing but it's not a very strong proposition. Let's change now to assume that we're going to have the value continue in perpetuity. And let's assume also that when we estimated our warehouse operations before, we also included maintenance and so it's counting all of the cash flows that would be continuing to add value for this warehouse in perpetuity. So here's what the projections look like. Now I've had to do something, I've had to extend this out to period t. Why is that? Well because we have our warehouse coming up front and we have the depreciation that goes for 10 years and after 10 years we have a change in our cash flows so they remain stable through period 10 but it isn't stable into the period 11 because that depreciation goes away. You see? It's gone here. All the other cash flows we're assuming, continue on but that one changes. And from that point forward, from period 11 on, so after a period 10, everything is stable and we're assuming it's not going to grow. And so we can use this to calculate our perpetuity. The difference ends up being, if you notice here, our cash flows up through period 10 is a 1.60 million and 910,000 afterwards and the difference is because without the depreciation, our taxes go up because we no longer can discount or deduct the depreciation and reduce our tax burden so our taxes go up and therefore our cash flows go down in perpetuity. Now if you see here, we have our discount rate of 10%, take that 910 divided by the discount rate of r, 10%, and that gives us a perpetuity value, a terminal value, of $9.1 million. Now we add this at the end of period 10 at the end of t, so we add the free cash flow in period 10 with the terminal value to get what I'm calling our evaluation cash flows at the bottom here. So this is now the series of cash flows that we're going to use to evaluate this initiative. So you can might want to stop again and use that bottom line evaluation cash flows and calculate the net present value in IRR and see what you get. OK hopefully with the perpetuity, you're able to come up with a net present value of $4,422,000. So it is definitely higher, a lot higher, than the situation with the salvage value. And the IRR are is also much higher as well, this is a much more robust investment when we consider the perpetuity value that's created by setting up a warehouse. But notice it's not as much as the 9.1 million here because we are discounting this to present value, so you see that that's far in the future. So discounting to today's value, it doesn't add $9 million, it adds around $4 million but it's still a significant amount to make this initiative worthwhile. You may not be comfortable saying a warehouse would last in perpetuity but we can use an annuity to maybe make an assumption that's more reasonable and again assuming our maintenance is included here, let's assume for 20 years the warehouse is in place for 20 years and calculate the value using an annuity. So again, we've got our salvage value, our perpetuity value and we have our annuity now and we're assuming there's 20 periods total so it's 10 periods beyond period t. So an annuity for 10 periods beyond period t of 910 so it's 10 more periods at 10% is a little over $5 million. Again we take that terminal value, add it to their free cash flows in the last period t to get our evaluation cash flows. And again we apply the net present value and IRR to that series of cash flows. Pause, see what you come up with. You should get a value for the annuity of a little over $3 million. So you can see that by assuming it doesn't go to forever, it is less than the perpetuity, which makes sense but it's not a lot less. Even though this value went from $9 million down to $5 million it happens far in the future so the discounting makes it so that there's not as big of a difference and it's still a very robust investment to consider for our investors. So we've now showed so that there can be long term value to your supply chain initiatives and we've come up with a way to calculate that long term value and to pull it into our analysis by using the terminal value.
