So now let's see how the master production schedule can be used for different purposes. And, specifically, we're going to look at how it's used to make promises to customers. And so the question we're trying to answer is, how can sales and distribution-- those customer facing organizations-- determine what promises to make for availability of product to their customers? Now if I look at a make the stock system, where I'm producing up to a forecasted demand, then what I want to know is how much of that demand is consumed by orders-- already committed orders? Because then the leftover is what I have available to promise. For make to order system, yes, I'm only producing up to what I'm ordered. But I've got to plan how much capacity to allocate. So the question there, is how much of the planned capacity is committed to different orders that are already committed and going to happen? So the Available to Promise is simply the portion of that existing inventory for make to stock, or planned production for make to order system that is not already committed or consumed by customers. So it's the amount that I have available, thus the name Available to Promise. And so the MPS is a communication tool, and it's providing sales and distribution visibility into what is still available for them to sell. So think about the MPS as a communication tool. Remember, we're talking about the information flow from your vendors, all the way through your production, all the way down to your customers. And so MPS is a great tool to take marketing's forecast, and then also to give back to sales what you still have available to sell. So we're going to look at available to promise. And this requires a little more information. They have to track committed or actual sales. And there are two flavors here, discrete and cumulative. Discrete assumes that every production cycle is planned independently. And anything produced in one cycle does not move over to the next cycle. Cumulative is just the opposite. It assumes that inventory can carry over from one period to the next. And we'll talk about those in more detail in a second. So let's look at an MPS. And this is a master production schedule we used from the previous lesson. And you see I have six months. And I have the forecast of demand by each period, 10 in period 1, 15 in period 2. Let's call these months. So I have months one to six. And I've got a production plan. Somehow I figured out what the production plan should be. And in this case I'm producing 45 units. It looks like in period one and in period two And how I figure that out, there's many different ways. It could be lot for lot. It could be silver-meal. It could be optimization, whatever. This is what our production plan is. Now, I've also got this committed customer orders. So that means in period one, I've committed a sales of 5 units. Now, I forecasted 10, but I've got 5 that I've already committed. In period two, I've got 8 units that are committed, but I forecasted 15, and so forth. So this is the sales that have actually been committed. So you've got to track this and include this now in your MPS. Then I've got the projected available balance. And this is very similar to what we did before with a slight twist. So what is this telling me? Well, the amount I have of this product in time period one is equal to what I had last time period, 30 units, plus what I'm producing, 45, minus the maximum of my forecast in my committed orders for that period. Why am I doing a maximum? Well, it just makes it more conservative. So if I'm over-committing, it's going to make sure that I know that I take that out of my balance. So it takes the maximum of those two. So that's how I come up with the projected available balance. And now we want to figure out how do I calculate the ATP-- the Available To Promise-- both the discrete and the cumulative case. Let me start with the discrete case. So what it's going to say is-- so we're asking the question, for sales in time period one, how many more units do I have available to sell if a customer comes in and says I want X number of units, can I accept that order or not? Do I have them available to promise? So we're going to say it's equal to what I have on hand, 30 units, plus what I'm producing, 45, minus everything I've committed to the next production run, because those are already committed. So that's going to be 30 plus 45, minus 5, minus 8, minus 12, or 50 units. So in time period one, sales knows that they have 50 more units that they can sell. And they won't step on previously promised capacity or inventory. Now, why don't I have an ATP for time period two or three? Well, because nothing is changing. Until I either get an order in, or I do something else, the situation is still the same. I have 50 units that are available to promise to customers. The next event that changes that is the production run in time period four, where I'm scheduled to produce 45 more. So what will my ATP be at time period four? Well, that's a little bit different. Remember, this is discrete. So I don't carry inventory over. I'm going to assume that I will have consumed all of this inventory by the end of this period. So my available to promise in the discrete case for time period four is simply equal to the production run, 45, minus what I've committed in orders for the next periods up to the next production run. Because I assume I'm going to have another production run right over here in time period seven, every three months. So that means it's 19 units. So I have 19 units for sales to promise to deliver. Because I've assumed that all my forecast is going to be used up, or all my available to promise is going to be used up from period one, before I hit my production run. That's the assumption that's built in the discrete ATP. OK, let me clean this up. And let's talk about the cumulative case. So cumulative, starting out is exactly the same, right? So I want to have my billable to promise in time period one, is going to be equal to what I have sitting around on hand, plus my production run, 45, minus what I've committed. So it's going to be the same. It's going to be 50 units, same as the discrete case. The difference is when I go to the next event, which is the production planning. What's the ATP going to be? Well, its going to be equal to my previous ATP, plus my production run, minus what I've committed going forward. So that's going to be equal to 50 plus 45, minus 26, or 69. So that's telling me how many I have available to sell at that point in time. Now different businesses will operate differently. Sometimes what the cumulative will do, it will allow you to spread that out. And it will always, typically, will look better. But there might be cases where I don't want to be able to rob from this inventory. Why would I want to commit some of that inventory to, say, this period, when it might get used in time period two or three. So it's really based on the company's situation and their preferences here. So this is how ATP works, but let's go a little deeper. Let's roll this MPS one more time period forward. So this is time period one, but now let's go to time period two. So I've rolled. It's now time period two or month two. I sold five in period one, right? That's what I had committed before. And I've got these orders, one through four. And so order one says they need 7 units, and they want it delivered in period two. Order two says give me 4 units in period three, or three says I need 10 units in period five. And order four says 20 units in period six. So the question is, should I accept them? And what does this do to our available to promise going forward? Well, let's look at this. And what I have, I want to look at my discrete case. And then we'll do the continuous. So what do I have available to promise? Well, what's changed? The first thing, I'm at time period two because time period one is done now. So it's moved. It's to next month. So my committed orders for time period two were eight. But I now have seven more I want in. That's why I got 15 here now. So this is assuming if I want to accept this, this is what would be. The next order has four more units coming in to time period three. So that goes from 12 to 16. Time period 5 has 10, plus 10, gives me 20. In time period six, has 20 orders coming in. They had an order of six. So that becomes 26. And notice that I show period seven, now, here as well. And this is because it's a rolling six month forecast. Typically, this is how things are planned. You have a rolling 12 month, 6 month, 18 month, whatever planning horizon. OK, so that's my committed orders. So what is my available to promise for the discrete case? Well, it's simply going to be 65, for period two, 65. I'm not producing anything. But I got committed this much, which is 10, 20, 30, 41-- or 31. And that means I have 34 units left there. Oh, I went too far. Let me just make sure. This is all like bookkeeping, so I always get confused. So it's 65 units, minus, how much do I have until my next production run? Sorry, I was getting confused there-- to my next production run. So that's 65 minus 15, minus 16, is 34. OK, it's a discrete case. So for my next production run, I would have 45 produced, minus my committed, is 10 plus 20, plus 26. So 45 minus 30, 40, 56, is negative 11. So that's my available to promise. So I'm already overbooked for that time period. That's a discrete case, where I assume that I do not carry inventory over. All right, so now let's look at the cumulative case. I'm sure the initial period right here's the same as I had for the discrete case can be what I have on hand. I'm producing nothing, and I subtract off the committed orders up until my production time. Now for this next run, it's going to be equal to my inventory ATP that I have, 34, plus the production run of 45, minus what I have committed to the next production run. And that's going to be equal to 23. So that tells me that sale still has 23 units. So whichever way the system is doing it, now I'm able to communicate to sales and distribution using the MPS on what they have available to promise to customers. Before we leave this, let me talk about some other concepts here. And the main thing I want to cover is something known as time fencing. And this is commonsensical, but it's something that's widely used. And the idea is that you want to stabilize your production plan, because as orders come in, you don't want to suddenly change things, and make it like forecasting, very nervous, changing every period. And so what you do is you set three zones, usually. And use fences, a demand fence and a planning fence. So if an order is coming in, and the time in the future is less than what this demand fence is, that might be three months out. Then I only use committed orders for the MPS. And this is known as the frozen zone. In other words, production is fixed. I will not do anything else. When I plan my production for this time period that's in this first demand fence, I only produce to what is committed. Now if the time is greater than that demand fence, which is like three months up to, say, six months, then I'm allowed to make some overrides to the plan. And you can call this the slush period. So it's not frozen. It's a little flexible, and you can make some overrides. Now as the time gets further out and it's beyond that planning fence of, say, 12 months, then you're allowed to make any changes, within limits. You can't make infinity or negative things. But it's really wide open, and you call that the water, or the liquid phase. So what we're doing here is, essentially, we're saying, as I get closer, I'm frozen. Then I've got a period in here where it's slushy. And then over here, it's wide open. So as I get closer to my production time, I'm restricted on what I can do to change my production schedule. And every company has this to some degree. What is frozen? What is still slushy or available to change? And what is wide open? And these ideas of time fencing are widely used. So now we're going to do after this, is focus, not on the end item planning, but we're going to look at the inputs that go into produce that end item.
