So let's dive into solving the fixed planning horizon problem. And our first set of algorithms are going to be simple heuristics. So we're going to specifically look at four different heuristics-- the one-time run or one-time buy heuristic, the lot for lot or chase heuristic, fixed EOQ, or fixed order quantity, and periodic order quantity, or POQ. So these are all very simple approaches, but we'll do these to illustrate some concepts. So let's start with a one-time run. So what this is saying, I need 2,000 over the course of a year, produce them all at once. So in January or month one, I produced all 2,000 of them. So what I show up here in red is the production for each month. So I'm going to produce 2,000, so what's going to happen? Well, the rest of the year, I produce none. And so what does this mean for inventory? Well, I'm going to have a ton of inventory up front that I'm going to deplete over time, but I'm going to have a lot of it for the first many months of the year. So this translates, if I made 2,000 units in month one, I only use 200, so I'm charged for inventory on hand the remaining 1,800. 2,000 minus 200 forecast leaves me 1,800. I get charged $1 a month for each one that I hold, so my holding cost for that month will be $1,800. Now, I have a setup cost as well because I did a production run of $500. So what is my total cost? $13,100 in inventory holding costs, $500 for the setup cost gives me a total cost of $13,600. All right. So that's one simple heuristic. It's about as simple as you can get. Make it all now. And so what am I paying for? Well, I'm paying for holding a lot over a long period of time, but the benefit, I only have one setup cost. OK, let's look at the next simple heuristic, lot for lot, and this is also called chase. So the plan is, every month, I manufacture what is forecasted. So in period one, they forecast 200, I make 200. In period two, they forecast 150, I make 150. So this is my production plan. I make a little bit each month. What does that mean for costs? Well, the beautiful thing is, I have no inventory holding cost because as soon as I make it, I ship it out to Australia. What's the downside? I have a setup cost every single period because I'm doing a separate run every time. What's my total cost? Well, it's going to be 12 of these setup costs for $6,000. And you can't really see the production in the forecast, but they're right on top of each other. There's a little blue diamond behind each one of these. And it's just like the chase process or strategy we talked about for the MPS. I'm producing exactly what's needed each time period. So that's another simple heuristic. And we'll compare and contrast these at the end. Now let's look at some that are a little more sophisticated. And so we might want to say, well, why not order an economic order quantity? Why not go through and calculate that? And we remember that Q* is simply equal to the square root of 2 times the setup cost times the demand over the cost of excess. And if you do that, it comes out close to 400 units for your Q* if you round it up. So now what my policy is, I'm going to order 400 units when it makes sense, when my demand is greater than my inventory on hand for that period. So for period one, I'm going to produce 400 because my inventory on hand was less than what I needed to satisfy it. So that means I'll produce 400, 200 will go to satisfy demand, which means I'm left with 200. Now, the next time period, I need 150. Well, I've got 200, so I don't need to produce any. And so after I send out the 150, I'll be left with 50. Now, because of my production plan, I need 100 in time period three. I only have 50 at the end of time period two. I'm going to have to do another production run. How much do I do? I order Q, 400. So then you can see how long that lasts. And then the next time when my inventory on hand for a period t minus 1 is less than my demand in t, then I know I need to do a production run. So the big thing here is that my Q, how much I produce, is stable. It's 400 every time. What changes? The time between the runs changes. So I keep the quantity stable, but my time varies. And you can see I will produce 400 in time period one. In time period three, I'll produce another 400. And then I'll produce it again in time period 8, 10, and 11. And you can see what this does. I have a little bit of holding cost. And you look at what's being carried over, about $1,900. Setup costs, I have one, two, three, four, five runs for 2,500, so my total cost here would be $4,400. Now just like you think about keeping the quantity the same, I can think about another simple heuristic in that instead of keeping the Q the same, I let the T stay the same. Remember what T is? T is equal to the quantity-- so Q* over the annual demand. And so if you do this, it comes out to right about three months. So this says you should order every three months. So my T is stable. I'm going to do a production run once a quarter, every three months, which means I'm going to do four over the course of a year. What changes? My Q. So how much do I produce in this first quarter run? Well, it's going to be equal to how much is demanded. So 200, 350, 450, so I produce 450. I look for periods four through six, and I need 200. Seven through nine, I need 550, and so forth. So what you do here is I keep my t, my time between runs, constant, but my Q changes. So it's just another heuristic, a simple way of doing this. What do you end up with? Holding cost of about $2,000 and setup cost of about $2,000 because you have four production runs for a total cost of $4,000. So these are four very simple heuristics. You could probably come up with these on your own. Make it all at once. Make it only when you need it. Make a certain economic order quantity that's making the trade-off so that you keep the Q constant, but change the timing. Periodic order quantity-- keep the t constant, but you keep the quantity changing. So we can compare and contrast some of these. And we've talked about the inventory costs, the setup costs, and the total cost for all of them. We can also look at what the average monthly inventory on hand is. And this is simply the total inventory-- and that's for this. Remember, this is $1 per item per month, so I know that I have 13,100 item months in storage there. Divide that by 12. And that gives me my average monthly inventory on hand. And as you would expect, the worst one is the one-time run, where I have 1,000 units on hand on average and the best is that lot for lot where I have nothing because I only produce what I use each period. And you can see the other heuristics have differing numbers, 158, 166. They're not that different. But then we can look at something called inventory turns. Now, you've probably seen this in terms of financial statements where it's the cost of goods sold over a time period divided by the inventory at a point in time. When you look at units like this, it's really the demand over the course of the time period, the year, divided by the average inventory on hand. So in this case, it'd be 2,000; which is the total demand, divided by my inventory on hand that I have for each of these strategies. So turns, the higher the number is, means I'm turning my inventory faster. It's moving faster. It has a higher velocity, generally, a good thing. So which one has the best? Well, lot for lot. It's infinite because I have no inventory on hand. Something over 0 pretty much goes to infinity. But for some of the other systems, you can see that the FOQ and the POQ tend to have much faster turns than the one-time run because this is saying that the product turns maybe 1.8 times on average over the course of a year. Very slow. Because as things sit around, we know this, that inventory, it's best when it's moving. Because if it just hangs out, it gets damaged, it becomes obsolete, it gets stolen. All those bad things happen. So what are some pros for these different techniques? Well, they're very fast. You saw how quickly we could do these. They're just simple things to implement and they're very, very quick. The negatives? We have no guarantee of how close they are to optimality or their proximity to optimality. It's a single dimension too. They tend to either favor-- you know, this one favored setup costs. This one's obviously favored inventory. So they're not really looking holistically. But these are four very simple heuristic approaches.
