Let's continue with the discussion of the value and risk mapping, and some strategy, including e-procurement to this discussion. Recall the map of risk and impact on the vertical axis versus annual spend on the horizontal axis. So what is the tactic that we have to use to summarize? On the tactical area, we have to streamline that acquisition process. We have to reduce the activity, minimize the number of transaction, and we said use vendor managed inventory. Recall that we did that. On the leverage area, we want to maximize the leverage. We want to standardize everything. We want to consolidate the volume. We reduce transaction cost. Of course, global sourcing and actively look for new suppliers all the time. On the critical quadrant, we want to reduce risk. We want to eliminate as much as possible. We want to substitute something and simplify that buy. On the strategic side, we want to create an alliance. This is where we want to create partnership with the supplier. We want to share cost reduction, and we are not going to do too much active sourcing. We're not going to go and test the market all the time because we want the supplier to feel comfortable, and it's not part of the partnership if we keep looking for new suppliers all the time. And if it's a small supplier, we want to help develop this supplier and make them even better than they are. So let's look at the strategies, how to get out of the critical bites. The critical quadrant, that's the problematic one. So one way to do it is to find more suppliers or change engineering specification to lower the complexity. Try to move from the critical buy closer and into the tactical buy, by having simpler specification and something that's not that complex. We also can move to the buy. Again, lowering the complexity, but consolidating the buy. Even partner with others to increase the volume, and even giving the supplier more business even though it's not their main business, but making sure that we are a bigger customer of that supplier. Finally, we may want to go the other direction, not to make it tactical, but to make it strategic. To increase the value of that we buy from this supplier and partner with it, and make it a strategic partner. Let's now talk about electronic markets. Before we talk about how to deal with procurement in electronic markets, let's explain what they are. So there are public markets. Usually think about eBay or Amazon. These are public markets. In procurement, public markets are used in many cases for MRO, for maintenance repair operation stuff that doesn't go into the product because there we can partner with other companies. It's not something that's in the heart of the product. These type of markets have many sellers and many buyers. They have wide reach and very high transaction efficiency. Another type of market is industry sponsored market, a consortium. And this is usually happen within a vertical. So within, for example, the automotive industry, Covisint is a company that moves engineering specification and buying of parts between the major auto company and hundreds of suppliers. So there may be a few buyers and many, many sellers. And there's volume aggregation, and transportation become efficient in this case because you can combine the buys from several suppliers going into one or more buyers. It also exists in the retail space. For example, Worldwide Retail Exchange, WWRE is something like this in the retail space, and they exist in almost every industry. Finally, there are private electronic markets. GE is famous for holding one. They're run by one company, and there are many sellers, many bidders who participate in the marketplace. It's very secure because there's only one buyer, and they don't have to share anything with other buyers. So the sellers can have access to the design and engineering. And here you have many collaborative system to manage the quality. So the e-market itself may help suppliers manage the quality. But these are the main type of electronic markets that are there. How do we use electronic markets in procurement? So, for the tactical buy, you basically have an online catalog. The suppliers put in catalog. The buyer get in using a search engine or going directly to a specific supplier and buy certain things online. The leverage is when you conduct reverse auction. And you want to combine volume and have a large buy, so to speak, large spend. So you have leverage with the suppliers. But here is where you conduct reverse auction, what we talk about. This will be the first-price closed-bid type of auction. In the critical, that's where you have sometimes extra nets. This is where you use industry portals because usually the suppliers are very specific to the industry, and you want-- the electronic market can handle secure transactions, so you want to use this type of industry portal in this case. What you don't want to do is use any electronic buying in strategic cases, because here communication and continued communication with the suppliers are very important. Note however that in all cases, you want electronic execution. Doesn't matter, even with a strategic partner you want to use electronic invoicing. You want to use advanced shipping notice, electronic receipt, electronic invoice and payment. You always don't want to spend time shuffling paper around. So this is how you apply electronic procurement to the various type of buy. Let's stop here, and we will soon go to the next segment.
