PROFESSOR: Hi. Welcome to the fourth iteration of the EcoPants problem. And so we're going to be making some modifications based off of service levels that we get from our suppliers. So in this case, if you don't know this problem, I would recommend pausing the video and reviewing the problem over here on the right-hand side. All right. Now that you're familiar with what's going on in the problem, we are going to go ahead and review briefly what we want to do. And so given that we have a supplier-- so, for example, supplier 1 supplies fabric 1 with a 95% level of service, and supplier 2 supplies it with a 97% level of service-- we're going to make some adjustments for how much those cost. And so Barbara is going to be suggesting that a 1% increment-- and the service level is roughly equal to $5 per meter of fabric. And so you're going to be saying each 1% change is going to change essentially what we're optimizing for by $5 to help normalize for that service level. And we're going to be normalizing it to the service level of 95%. So let's go ahead, and let's start plugging that information in. And so this is actually going to be part of our cost matrix. And so we're going to update that cost matrix for each of these items. So we'll go down to our cost matrix, and we'll say, OK, we have a cost of 167 for fabric 1 from supplier 1. And we have a service level of 95%. So we're to say service-- S-E-R-V-I-C-E-- service_level. And that's going to equal 0.95. And I can go ahead and I can do that for all of my service levels. Again, to keep things pretty simple here, I'm going to go ahead and copy and paste a prepopulated matrix with all of those service levels. So I paste that here. You can see we have a service level for each one of those items. Perfect. Oop, it looks like I'm still actually editing problem 3. I'm going to go ahead and create a copy of this real quick. So we're going to install our SCX package. We are going to import our model. We've gone ahead. We've already changed these service levels. So I'm going to go ahead and run this. So we've updated our data such that our cost matrix now includes this service level for each one of our fabric and supplier combinations. So I'm going to scroll down to the bottom here. And we're going to say we'll have the same variables we had before. So we're going to have the amount variable that we're going to have in that cost matrix, whether or not we're using that supplier. So we're going to have those binary variables for that fixed cost. We're going to still have the same M variable. And finally, we're going to have our model. But we need to make some adjustments here because we're not actually going to be using that original cost. We're going to be using a modified cost. And so I'm going to go ahead and create a special variable in our cost matrix. I'm going to call this c, adjusted cost, A-D-J-C-O-S-T. This adjusted cost is going to equal that-- let's go ahead and say that service level-- oops, that adjusted cost equals that service level, so c bracket service_level level and minus 0.95 because we're going to say, what's the difference? So, for example, 98 minus 0.95, that's going to be 3 percentage points. And so we'll say those three percentage points should represent $15 of change because that's $5 per percentage point. So I'm going to say service_level minus 98, and we're going to say times 100 because we have 0.03 is that difference from the service level of 98 to 95. And so we're going to say times 100 to get 3 percentage points' difference times $5. And that's going to equal that cost differential. Now, in this case, if our service level is higher, this is going to be 3, or 98 minus 95. So it's going to be a positive 3. So this is going to be $15 in adjusted cost. So I'm actually going to make this a negative 5. So I'm going to say having this increase is going to actually reduce our cost. So it's going to save us $5 from the cost that we're paying. And we're going to say all of this adjustment is going to be plus the actual cost, so c. And that's going to be cost. Is that what we called it? Yeah, c, cost. We'll go ahead and we'll look at this final one so we know that this cost is 125. And since it's 3 percentage points higher, we realize that this cost should be 110. So I'm going to go ahead and print. I'm going to run this cell again. I'm going to add some code below. I'm going to print that last item in our cost matrix. I'm going to say print cost, and we're going to say minus 1. So print that last item in our cost matrix. And let's see what our adjusted cost is. It is 109.99. Yep. So that looks like it's going to round up to 110. And so we can see that we're saving $15 off of this cost because our service level is better than that normalized rate of 95%. So it looks like we are adding that in properly. So I'm going to go ahead and delete this cell. And we'll go on down to our model. So now that we have that adjusted cost, we are going to modify our objective function to account for that adjusted cost. So we're going to say the amount that we're flowing times this adjusted cost, A-D-J, this adjusted cost, for each item in cost, plus that standard setup cost that we have, should equal the flows that we're going to want given this modified service level constraint, given the fact that we value service level at $5 per percent of increase in service level. So I'm going to go ahead and run this. And that should create a proper model for me. So I'm going to go ahead and show this formulation. At the top, you should see some adjusted service levels. And so you'll see the cost that you have per product will be adjusted per service level. But we'll scroll down here, and we'll show our outputs. And so you can see here is the objective function. And let's go ahead, and we'll start answering some of these questions over here. So I'm going to scroll over. So "How would you adjust your model in Part 3 to include this new Level of Service policy?" We are not adding a new binary variable. We are modifying our objective function to consider the level of service. Adjusted prices instead of the original ones-- yes, that will be the correct answer there. It should be. Let's go ahead and see if that's correct. And it looks like that is correct. Now, what's our minimum level-of-service-adjusted cost for EcoPants? Now that is going to be this value we've solved here. So it's going to be 68-- or 61,809.99. So that's going to be 61,810. So let's go ahead and type that in-- 61,810. We'll submit that. And that looks like that is correct. And then "What is the minimum total procurement cost for EcoPants under this scenario?" OK, now, this is a tricky question because the minimum LOS-adjusted cost is not what's the actual realized cost. So when they actually go to their suppliers, they're actually going to pay the amounts that they originally agreed to, not those adjusted prices. So how can we get that information out? Let's go ahead, and we'll copy our objective function from above. We'll make some slight modifications to it, and then we'll print that out at the bottom. So I'm going to go ahead and copy that objective function. And here at the bottom I'm going to add a new cell. I'm going to add some code. And I'm going to say-- let's go ahead, and we'll call this realized cost? Yeah, let's call it realized cost. So this is our realized cost. And that is going to equal this whole thing from our objective function. But instead of our adjusted cost, we're just going to make this our cost. Now, if we run this, we won't actually get anything because c amount is technically still a variable. So we will need to make a couple other minor modifications. I'm going to say c amount dot value. And so that value just says, hey, if I've solved this, I'm going to pull the value of this variable times s use dot value-- because that's also a variable. So we'll pull both of those variables out to now be values. And we will run this. Oops, I don't need to add any code here. We'll go ahead and run this. So I'm going to go ahead and-- realized cost. Awesome. So let's go here. And we'll go to the end, and we'll add a new row. And we're going to print that. So let's print that realized cost. And let's see what our realized cost is. So it looks like it's 80,275. So let's go ahead and we'll copy that over, and let's see if we got that right. I'll paste that. We're going to submit that. And it looks like we did indeed get that correct. And so that's how we can go ahead and say, hey, look, we've done this function above for our optimization. But we want to realize some different variables afterwards or different values afterwards. We can go ahead and do that by creating a special value here at the bottom. All right. So let's go on to question 4. "In your optimal solution, from which suppliers will you be purchasing the fabric?" So we can go back up. Our optimal solution is from the LOS-adjusted solution. So we will be purchasing fabric from-- so supplier 1 has some fabrics flowing through it. So supplier 1, so let's check that. Supplier 2 doesn't have any fabric. Supplier 3 doesn't. And they shouldn't as well because, remember, they're still foreign, and we're blocking them with some other constraints. And finally, supplier 4 does have some flows-- so supplier 1 and supplier 4. I'm going to go ahead and submit that. It looks like we are good to go. So it looks like we've solved this properly. All right. So thank you very much for your time. It's been fun to solve this problem together.
