OK. Let's solve the Dire Wolf problem in a spreadsheet. So this is our input data. And all that I have is the information for each of the inputs that we mentioned in the formulation-- the material cost per unit, the inventory holding cost in dollars per unit per month, cost of a stock out, cost of hiring, cost of firing or laying someone off, the number of labor hours required for each item produced, cost for each regular worker-- what their salary is, essentially, in dollars per month, overtime cost, outsourcing cost, all those basic costs. We also have some assumptions here. I'm assuming that workers work 160 hours per month. That's because I'm assuming four weeks per month and a 40-hour work week. I limit the maximum number of overtime hours that any employee can work. I set the starting and ending inventory so it just doesn't go to 0. I have some backlog, what I allow backlog to start and end-- typically, you're going to say 0. I don't want to start or end with backlog. And then, you might want to put some boundaries or limits on the workforce. I have what I'm starting with. And you might want to say, what do I want to end with? Now, what we're also showing here is the demand. And this is the demand over 12 months. And because of what they're making-- they make products for use in the winter-- their very high demand is during the winter time in the northern hemisphere. So it's pretty much September through February. Look at this low period in the spring and summer. So they have very high production and very low production. And this is the thing that's going to be a challenge for them, because the question is, how do I design the best production system and the best overall plan such that I can still meet this low demand in the spring and the high demand during the winter? Now, let's do a quick check here. What does it cost to produce an item if I do it all internally? Well, I know the material cost, so I know it's going to be the cost for each item is going to be $75 plus the cost of labor. Well, how much labor does it take? Well, we know that there's four. So there's four hours for each item. And I know each worker costs $2,400 per month. And I know they work 160 hours. So divide it by 160 hours per month. And things cancel out. The hours cancel out. So it's dollars per item. And these all cancel out. This ends up being 4. That goes away. It's about $60. So this is $60. So this means my labor cost is going to be $60. So my internal production cost is $135 per item. Just as a check, I wanted to see what outsourcing was, because if outsourcing was cheaper than that, then I probably wouldn't make anything. I'd have someone else do it for me. So just getting your handle around what we have with our data. All right. So how does this look like in the spreadsheet? Here's what we've got. This should look very familiar to you. Let me orient you. I've got my objective function up here in the top left, like I always do. And I'll explain it in a second. In my yellow, down here-- I'll circle it for now-- these are my decision variables. Every row from Row 23 to 34 is a month. So this is telling me the number of employees I hired, fired over time. Backlogged units, internal production, and outsourced for each month. Now, I have it set up that numbers I plug in here-- I didn't optimize this. I just assumed I'm outsourcing everything. I just plugged it all in there. So let's go back to the objective function. It's simply going to be the sum of what I have in Column E for these, because I broke it out so you can see what the costs are in each of the categories. Each of these, for example, this cost of outsourcing, is simply the sum multiplied by the relevant cost. In this case, it's the outsourcing. So I'm showing it in by each category. And the objective function is just summing them all up. Pretty straightforward. So the next constraint I have is the inventory one. So let's see what this is. So I'm here in February. So the available inventory I have in February is going to be equal to what I had available at the end of the month in January, plus what I produced internally in this month-- February, plus what I did by contract manufacture in February, plus what I backlogged-- because I'm allowing backlog. That's like having something available-- minus what I backlogged the previous time period. I have to make sure I cover that backlog. If I didn't, then it would be a lost sale. So that's the inventory, the amount of inventory I have available to me. Then, the inventory at the time of each month-- this is what I'm going to pay my holding cost on-- is simply going to be equal to what I have available minus what I actually shipped out to my customers. I've got my work force. And it's a balance equation. And so it's going to be equal to what I had in the previous month plus what I hired this month minus what I fired this month. Then, I've got a constraint on the maximum internal production. And you can see that this is going to be equal to the amount to the number of hours I'm planning for each employee to work, times the number of people I have actually working that month, adding in the overtime hours for that month. And I'm going to divide this by the number of units of labor required for each item. So I can't exceed that for my internal production. That's my capacity for my internal production, not my outsourced. Now, for my maximum overtime, this is going to be equal to the maximum I set this as an input for hours multiplied by the number of people I have working. All right. Oops. Yeah. So that's pretty much it. Set up. And so you have this available to you. You can take a look. It all works out. And plugging these numbers in should give you this same number-- $5,001,800. Now, I want to solve it. So I'm going to have a series of constraints here. First off, I have my objective function in Cell C2. My changing variables are just simply all of those ones that are in the yellow. Just all of these. And then, I have a series of constraints. The first one is making sure my inventory is above a certain minimum at the end of the last period. The next two constraints-- make sure I don't exceed a maximum or a minimum number of employees at the last period. The next one is really just an integer constraint that I put in for integer variables for the number of people I hire and fire. You don't need this. I have it in there so it comes out clean. But with the way the numbers work, it would work anyway. After that, you want to make sure your overtime doesn't exceed the maximum. You want to make sure that your ending backlog doesn't exceed the parameter you set. And then, you have the production capacity. And then, the last one is all making sure that your available demand meets what the customer is demanding. You're going to solve this with Simplex. Make sure you do not check the Ignore Integer Constraints. And you can just solve it. If you solve it, you should get this. OK? So let's talk about this. First, you can see what the price is. And this is obviously less expensive than if we used all of outsourcing, which we showed what the cost would be before. And I actually put in there and I figured out the average cost per unit, which is simply Cell C2 divided by the amount that I produce down here in Cell M36. So this objective function is the least interesting part of this whole spreadsheet. What's interesting is it's now telling me what to do in these decision variables. So I'm laying people off, it looks like, in month 3 and 4 as well as in month 12. I'm hiring people after that summer lull, hiring them in months 7 and 8. It looks like I'm working overtime the first and the very last parts of the year. And it looks I am still outsourcing some. Not as much as I was before, but I'm still doing some. And then, you can see what I'm doing for the internal production. So it looks like I'm producing heavily when there's a heavy demand. And I'm trying to cut down. How am I cutting down? Well, I'm letting people go. And then, when it picks back up again, I'm hiring them back. And so we put in how much did that cost. And we'll play with that in a little while. But look at what we're doing here. I'm producing, and it's changing dramatically. So this is known as a strategy. And we've seen this before. It's known as a chase strategy. I'm chasing the demand. My production level's fluctuating to meet that change in demand. I'm shrinking it down during the spring months to meet that shrinking demand. Now, what we'll do for the next segment is play with this and see how these changing parameters- How does that affect what I'm going to do?
