OK, let's dive into cash flows themselves. And one of the aspects we're going to have to think about with cash flows is how we project them into the future. Why is that? Remember our investment valuation is considering how we're going to invest in assets to generate future cash flows. So, we need to then estimate what those cash flows will be in the future in order to determine if this investment is actually worthwhile. So, cash flows are money that comes in and out of our firm and it happens over time. It's a combination of cash inflows, which are considered positive inflows into our company, and cash outflows where we spend money and it's negative-- cash is leaving the firm and it's a negative number. Here's a list of the kinds of things that we will consider in our projected cash flows. And it might be good for you to take this list, pause the video for a moment, and think about whether each of these is an inflow into the firm or an outflow out of the firm. And maybe you could mark each one with a plus sign if it's a positive in inflow and a negative sign if it's an outflow. OK. Hopefully you had a chance to think about the different types of cash flows and consider whether they're inflows or outflows. We'll start with the first one. Original investment is going to be an expense-- we're spending money upfront to invest-- so money is leaving the firm and it will be an outflow. Increased revenues, which we hope will get a significant amount to offset the investments, will be inflows into our firm-- we're getting money into the firm so it's positive. Another kind of increase is we could have increased costs that go with the particular initiative. And an increase in cost means that more money is leaving the firm, and therefore it's an outflow. On the flip side, if we can reduce costs, which hopefully we can do with our supply chain designs, we can reduce the amount of cash that's leaving the firm, and therefore that's a net positive or an inflow into the firm. By avoiding spending we're having an inflow into the firm. If our initiative actually has a diminishing impact on revenues then there's less money coming into the firm and that's a negative cash flow. At the end of the project we may have some assets that remain and have some residual value and we can sell those assets, and therefore a salvage value of any assets at the end will give us a positive cash flow-- money coming into the firm. And on the flip side, at the end of the initiative we may have some close down costs, which would be an outflow. So, you can see there's a mixture of positive and negative cash flows and they happen over time. So, one way we draw these pictures, the positive cash flows being arrows upwards and the negative cash flows being arrows downwards, could look like this. So it's a series of cash flows-- positive and negative-- they happen at various times-- it looks a little bit messy. So, one thing we're going to have to do is group these or aggregate these cash flows into tidier buckets, and we need to define some time periods then. We're going to aggregate the cash flows, add up all the cash flows over a certain time period. Those time periods are often either monthly, quarterly, or annually-- on a yearly basis. And so given the nature of our supply chain designs are typically a little longer term and a lot of the capital budgeting that happens in the firm ends up being over a longer period of time or an annual budgeting process will often have buckets of annual time periods. And for most of the exercises in this week we'll consider annual time buckets. Now common practice assumes that the cash flows occur at the end of the projected period. So the income statement transactions, the things that happened throughout the year-- the revenues that come in, the material cost we spend, the COGS, the other operating expenses we have-- those would accumulate throughout the year-- throughout the time period. And therefore we would account for those, add them all up and account for them, at the end of the period or at the end of the year. Balance sheet transactions are a little different because they could happen more immediately. And so therefore you want to try to group them around the annual time bucket when they happen. And generally one of the things that you want to consider is that they could happen immediately or very soon to immediately after the project begins. So obviously an initial investment in some kind of assets might happen right away but we could also have, for example, a reduction in inventory. And that could happen very close to time zero because when we make our first purchase order we purchase less to replenish our inventory, and therefore we reduce that working capital right away. So, you can have some cash flows and period zero but generally we'll move them to the end of the time period in which they occur. So for our example here, those blue arrows could be grouped a little bit more tidily into time buckets that are these black arrows that are at the end of the time period, we add them together. And you can take out your ruler if you want, I think I measured them pretty well, so that the arrows should add up in a cumulative way that the two positive ones here add up to be this larger one. And the positive and the negative offset each other to give us a net of positive cash flow. And so there's offsetting positive and negative cash flows over time and we group them all into the end of the time period. So these two are grouped into this one and these three are all added together into this one. If we did this in terms of numbers, again, this is fairly representative-- I measured the arrows so hopefully the numbers should be right-- but if we had different cash flows over those periods we add them all up together and get our cumulative cash flows. And this is what we'll use for our projections-- an easier number that adds up all the various cash flows that happened throughout the period. The next question is how long should our time horizon be? How many periods should we include in our analysis? And this depends, oftentimes the decision makers will want to include the time period when there's the most dynamic periods of activity-- when things are changing-- and wrap it up with some kind of a steady state when the cash flows are stabilized in some way. However, if you go too long waiting for that steady state, the uncertainty in being able to project or estimate what those cash flows will be-- it increases over time, so we're less confident of the cash flows that are in the future. So you don't want it to be too long. There's no right answer and the decision makers involved in the particular decision will have to come to some agreement on this. But once you decide the time period you're going to have to figure out how to wrap the project up, or the initiative up. And there's two ways to do this. One is you actually consider that all of the activities end up in a salvage cash flow. So for example, if you have assets at the end you're going to sell those and have a positive cash flow of those sales. You're going to recover the working capital that you may have deployed in the project. Or you may have costs to close things down and you have to have those costs at the end. And you try to account for all the costs that would wrap up the project in a salvage value. The other option is to consider that the initiative you've implemented is something that will continue indefinitely and in such a way where you can estimate the value of the cash flows that comprise a perpetuity. And we'll talk more about what a perpetuity is later, but this is just a way of considering that the cash flows may happen indefinitely and we can we come up with a value to estimate that at the end of our time horizon. One final consideration is inflation. Our cash flows that happened initially in the first year may increase over time with inflation. And we have to think about how we incorporate that. There's two ways to do it. The most common way is people consider nominal cash flows, which is incorporating inflation in the prices and the cost directly. So for example, if you have a revenue and you in period one, two, and three-- let's say these are years-- and we have a 3% annual inflation, then our revenue in period one may be 100 but in period two would be 103 and in period 3 would be 106-- I think a little bit more than that, 106.1. So our revenues would keep going up nominally with the rate of inflation. Now some of the cash flows don't go up over time. So for example, if we had depreciation that would be maybe 10 in year one it would stay 10 throughout because if we have a straight line depreciation. So, there may be a mixture of different inflation rates. Some of them not having inflation at all for the different components. And your salaries may go up at different rates than your raw materials, et cetera. So it can get a little complicated to incorporate all these different inflation rates. To simplify that, you may take inflation out completely and use what we call real cash flows. The flip side is that some of these cash flows that do remain constant over time have to be-- depreciation being one, it's a flat line number-- have to be reduced according to the rate of inflation to make it equivalent. This gets a little complicated as well. And in the end, once you decide whether you're going to use nominal or real cash flows you'll have to use a discount rate in doing your analysis. And we'll describe more about that in the next lesson, but the discount rate has to match with the choice of real or nominal cash flows. You can have a real discount rate or a nominal discount rate. In general, I'm giving an introduction to the inflation but I'm also going to say to simplify our exercises we're going to ignore inflation. It's something you'd want to consider in a particular initiative, but to make them the concepts a little easier to understand and the math little easier to follow we're going to ignore inflation in the exercises that we conduct this week.
