Now let's see how we can use the MRP systems to coordinate between firms. So I'm going to do a very simple example. And this has two firms. There's an end item manufacture, and there's a component manufacturer. And they're independent operations. They have separate lead times, set up costs, holding costs. The bill of material is simply three of the components put together. And so the way the process works is orders come in from the end item manufacturer. And the composite manufacturer sends out product. And the product, like I said, is just three competence put together. So it's a simple, simple bill of material. And the demand for the end items are given. That's monthly demand. It's provided ahead of time. And what I want to do is explore different ways to coordinate between the end item manufacturer, and the component manufacturer. And we'll look at simple MRP rules that we've talked about in previous videos. We'll capacitate it, put a capacity limit on one of the suppliers, and see how MRP can handle that. And then we'll get into sequential versus simultaneous optimization. And what I'll do is have a spreadsheet. And I'll do this on a spreadsheet. This spreadsheet's available for you in the reference material section of the first video of this lesson. And what do I have here? Well, in the top chart, in the blue, is everything for the end item manufacturer. In the green is everything for the component. And what I have is for each of these 12 periods, and I've got the gross requirements here. So that's what the end item manufacturer needs to produce. Now I know my lead time. I have my set up costs, my holding costs, the capacity. And everyone's order capacity is very high right now. And I can tally what the setup and holding costs are for the plan that they have. Now I'm using simple MRP logic. So if I need 40 in month 12th, that means I have none on hand, which means I need 40 in. My lead time is two months. So one, two. I need to order 40 there. So the lead time between the due in and the planned order release is that difference. Now beneath, in the green, I have the tier one or the component manufacturer. And so it takes that output from the end item manufacturer, and it's its input. So in month 10, 40 of the end units are required since there are three of these compounds in each one of them. Remember the bill of material. Then I need 120-- 3 times 40, 120. And you can see this carries out across each of the months down to month four. And it's just three times what the planned order release is for the end item manufacturer. Now the complements logic is the same. If I need 120 in month 10, I have none on hand. So therefore, I need 120. My lead time is two months. So one, two. I need to have a planned order of release of 120 in month eight. So to achieve all of this-- I'm just circle it a little more, end item demand. I need to place the orders for my competence according to this, using simple MRP logic. Now is it optimal? Of course not, because I didn't take into account any of these setup costs or the holding costs. I just assumed, when you want it, that's when I'm going to order it. So there's a lot of things I can do here. I could make it a little smarter. I could optimize it. So let's see what happens when I do that. Now these are separate companies. So this is known as sequential optimization. So the end item manufacturer will optimize their situation, feed it to their vendor, who will then optimize theirs. So by sequential, what I mean is the end item manufacturer optimizes. Then the component manufacturer optimizes based on the output from the first firm. So what I have is the same gross requirements for months six to 12. See, I'm going to go back. These are the same numbers right in here. And instead of producing them just as they're being ordered, it's going to find an optimal solution, which is making 220 in month 11, making 300 in month eight, and making 80 in month six. So now this is what it feeds down to its component manufacture. So it goes over, one two three, because we're-- two, rather two months, because that's its lead time. And each of these will feed down to the manufacturer. So I need 220 end items in month nine. 220 times 3, because I have three in the bill of materials, is 660. And so you can see that this just ripples down exactly so. And now I'm going to optimize down here as a composite manufacturer. And it's pretty straightforward. It's going to be very lumping. It's going to produce exactly that amount each time. And so you see the lead time is two months. So this is what the production plan will be. So this is a simple, simple example of sequential optimization. Now let's make it a little more complicated. The capacity has been a 1,000 units here, a 1,000 units a month. What if I restrict it from 1,000-- oops, there we go-- to 300. So now I'm down to 300 units. And that's all I can do. Well this hasn't changed up here, because that doesn't change what the end item manufacturer does. They're still producing exactly as they did before. If you look through, 80, 300, 220, everything's the same. But the tier one manufacturer now has some constraints. What are the constraints? Well, they can only produce 300 a month. So optimizing with that constraint changes my production plan. You can see I'm going to produce 300 in period-- I need 300 in period three, 300 in period four, and so on. And you can see, based on the lead time, what the production plan will be for the planned order response-- order release rather. All right, so this is sequential optimization. First these guys optimize. They feed it down. And then each of the vendors optimize based on the output from the end item manufacturer. What if we did it a little differently though? What if they all work together? And what if actually the tier one manufacturer, this component manufacturer, was part of the same company as the end item manufacturer, they're the same thing. What if they could make decisions jointly? Well, it would look something like this. So in the sequential case, for the end item, I'm minimizing this cost for the blue, for the end item, and I'm minimizing this cost when I'm optimizing here. If I want to do it simultaneously, I'm minimizing this cost, which is simply the sum of these two. And I'm keeping the same capacity. They have 300. So I'm going to solve it simultaneously. And look what happens. I'm going to flip back and forth a little bit, because right now, this is saying that I need 220 in month 11, 200 in month nine, 200 in month eight, and 80 in month six-- very different from the previous run. And so you can see that both will change slightly by doing it simultaneously. So let's throw all three of these solutions up. And what I have is the MRP with no optimization. And I actually did it with a constrained amount. It's in the spreadsheet that you can play with, the sequential optimization, and then the simultaneous optimization that we just saw, with all the common, same demand, and the same capacity constraints. You can see the component manufacturing cost as well as the end item manufacturing cost and the total costs. So which one makes the most sense? Well, some things jump out. MRP with no optimization is clearly the most expensive option, because I'm not making my decisions based on tradeoffs of setup and holding costs. The simultaneous optimization is always going to be lower cost, or the lowest cost, because I'm removing a constraint. If I look at sequential optimization, I'm essentially putting a constraint in. I'm doing suboptimal optimization. I'm optimizing one and then the other. I'm not looking at how they can trade off. So you would think this is the best solution. It's cheaper. It's the lowest cost solution. But it'd be very hard to implement. Why? Well let's look at the detail a little more. I'll just clean it up. So if I do a sequential optimization, the component manufacturer-- remember these are separate firms-- their cost is 4,800. By simultaneous, their price goes down by $900. They're saving money. What happens to the end item manufacturer? They go up by $500. So overall, I save $400. So overall it goes down. But it's not uniform. In other words, the end item manufacturer is paying the price for the system to be optimal. This happens all the time. You'll see it in procurement. You'll see it in network design. Whenever you're looking for a system optimal-- and that's what the sequential optimization or simultaneous optimization is doing-- then you're going to have disparate benefits and costs. Everyone won't benefit equally. Some will benefit a lot more. Some will get penalized. In this case, the end item manufacturer is paying the price so that the component manufacturer can save even more money. So would this ever happen? What would you do? Well, you can think about cost sharing, and there can be a way of maybe tying something together where the benefit, this total savings is saved at some sort. But if you don't have this mechanism, then it could be that it never happens. And that's why it's really interesting to see what would actually get implemented versus what you think would get implemented. And you might think, well, this is easy to do. Why don't I just do simultaneous? Well this was a very simple example with one vendor, three items that go to one end item. Think about the car. Think about the electronics. Think about that Adirondack chair, or even the huevos rancheros. There's thousands of parts you have here. You might have hundreds of vendors. So just doing everything simultaneously, it sounds good, but it really is not feasible. So you have to pick and choose what you think you can solve jointly, and what you need to do sequentially. And a lot of times, people ask, well why don't we just reoptimize whenever there's a change? Well, think back to what we did when we talked about the available to promise. It takes a lot of effort sometimes to change a production plant when it's ready to go. So think of your time fences. And you've got a frozen time when there is no change to the plan. You've got a slush time where you can make some changes, but you have to make the tradeoffs. And then you've got this water where any change is OK. So this all fits together, because you're not going to be optimizing every time a new order comes in. You want to only do that when you have enough time to react. So as my time gets closer to now, time gets shorter, I'm going to be more restrictive on what I can and can't change in terms of my production plan. So this shows how the MRP can be used to coordinate between different firms, suppliers, vendors, and their manufacturers.
