We can have conditions on the combinatorial bid. For example, we want to use minimum two carriers and each carrier should get at least 10. We don't know where, but must get at least 10 throughout the system. What we add here is this variable here. This is the sum. 90 is the sum of all. This is the sum of the loads that carrier one is getting. This 90 is the sum of the loads that carrier two is getting. So this is the sum of C11 to K11. You see C11 is here, to K11, which is here. And this is the sum of L11 to T11 from here to here. So each one of them is the sum of all the loads that the carrier is getting. And we can put it to any number, want to have some minimum number, so whatever. In this case I think we put it to 10. So we make sure that each of the sum is greater than or equal to 10. So this is simply an additional constraint. You see that K12, which is this, and T12, which is this here, are greater then 10. All the other conditions are the same. So this is what we just said. So we go ahead and optimizing it, and we get a different solution in this case. You see that still carrier one is getting its package that it wants, but carrier two is also getting some reasonably good packaging. For example, it gets B to C and C to B, what's called a continuous move. And the assignment is different. You see here, by the way, that the solution here is higher. We had 18,000 before. It's 18,125 because we just impose the constraint that each carrier has to get at least 10. And you see how the numbers here are distributed across the various packages. So the solution looks now something like this. Carrier one gets five on C to B and gets its package. Carrier two gets C to A and A to B, which is a continuous move, and also one of the good packages. So with this, let's explain the process. This is a more complex process than just regular auction or regular procurement. So you'll need to explain to the supplier. In many cases, companies that we dealt with are having a supplier conference, more than one sometimes, and explaining how the process works. And especially for small suppliers, you need to help them. In fact you may want to even identify the packages in their request for bids that you are submitting because large carriers will have operation research analysts who can find out through the data what are good bids and what good packages. Small carriers you may want to identify when you talk about transportation carriers. It does require a specialized software for the optimization. The problem structure is called set covering. And it can be solved for very large problems. But you need specialized software. This is something for a good-sized problem. It is something that is solved iteratively. It is not solved, of course, by a spreadsheet. And it takes a while to get to a good solution. You test various condition with various optimization runs. Just like we said before, you can test all kinds of conditions, add to the combinatorial nature of the problem anything that you want. You can add a level of service. You can add my brother-in-law has to get at least a million dollars, anything that you want. Or we can deal with only so many carriers or at least that many carriers or a constraint that the order sees from every facility, we want to have at least two carriers, one primary and one secondary. All kinds of conditions take place. And these conditions are imposed after the bidding data is in. So you first get the data. Then you impose all those conditions and run the optimization. Now as we said before, one of the issues that's not easily determined-- and determined as we said through negotiations. Remember when we talk about the level of service, we said that you had to determine how much level of service is worth to you. Turns out that in many cases it's not easy to determine. And by successive runs, you run with different types of level of service, different values. And people can say OK, this is what it means when the level of service is $10 per 1%. This is what it mean when it's $5 or $15 or whatever. And they start seeing the implication of different values on the level of service. By way of summary, let's say the following. A procurement auction is always an optimization process. You always try to find the best, the minimum, the lowest, the best service, what have you. The choice of the winner of course can be based on various criteria and can be subject to many conditions. Each one of these criteria and conditions can be modeled as a constraint. And you can have a combination of them. You don't need to test them one at a time. You may want to test what happens when I do a conspiratorial auction or when I introduce a level of service, take into account level of service, and also give a million dollars to my brother-in-law and also make sure that 30% of the carriers are women-owned businesses or whatever. So these are actual conditions that people are using in practice. And they usually use a combination of them. In all cases the solution will never be as good as running it with no conditions at all. When you introduce a constraint, the solution would be more expensive. But it means that it is worth for you. But you also know how much it is worth for you. By modeling it this way you know, for example, that having 25% minority carriers-- if you run the solution without any condition and then you run with 25% minority carriers, the difference in the value, the extra money that you have to pay for having 25% minority carriers is the extra that you pay for meeting this condition. So now you know how much this condition costs you. Now you know how much it may cost you to deal with high level of service carriers as opposed to any carrier. So all these introduce light and introduce more understanding into the process. You can model the level of service tradeoff explicitly. Do you want to have high cost, high service carrier? Do you want to have low cost, low service carrier? And finally combinatorial auctions that we did in the last segment can account for bidders' economics of scope. So you can take into account the actual economics of the supplier. Not only your economics are taken into account by the optimization, but you take into account the economics of the supplier who can give you better prices if they can be guaranteed that they are getting a combination of items that they're bidding on. So let's stop here. Thank you very much.
