All right, let's build the model. We've collected all the data, what do we do with it? Well, we're going to build a model-- and I'm doing this in a spreadsheet. This should look somewhat familiar to what we did before. I'm using the more compact notation because what we're going to do is play with this model. And so it's easier here to see, what if I change certain things? So let me give you the rough layout, all the grey cells are all data. So anything in grey is data, it's input data. You can change those things. In fact, that's what we'll be doing when do our sensitivity analysis. Anything in the yellow cell is a decision variable. These are the things the optimization model is making a determination on. It's picking those numbers. The white cells are formulas. Stay away from the white cells. Don't change those. Or change those at your own peril. So what do we have here? Well, I've got my objective function up here and I'll talk about it in more detail in a second. Then you see all my decision variables. And for my distribution centers, my decision variables are whether I open them or not. And then whether I have product-- how much product I have shipped from the Bellow Falls plant, as well as from the Scranton plant. Now for each one of the distribution centers I've got my variable and fixed costs. And for my transportation inbound, I've got my cost per barrel here for Bellow Falls and for Scranton. Now if I look down lower, here in rows 19 through 24, this is all of the transportation moves for the outbound. So a 1 here. This means I'm moving 1 barrel from the Boston DC to New Hampshire. And so you can see this is set up very similarly to what we have used in previous lessons. Over here is simply the left-hand side-- I'm summing it up across the row. Here I'm summing up the amount that's delivered to each city. And I want to make sure that my quantity does not exceed my capacity here, at each of the DCs. And the quantity delivered here meets the demanded amount. I've also got down here, at this total amount-- this just sums up the supply, or the amount that's moved through. My cost for moving the inbound barrel, that's the $0.55 a barrel. And then I've got my constraints down here that we used last time. One is p-min and p-max that limits the number of facilities I open for the DCs. I've got my two level of service constraints, one is my average miles so it has to be at least-- my distance averages can be no more, rather than 25 miles. And in this case I have to at least 80% of the demand within 50 miles. So these are the constraints. This should be very familiar to you. One thing I did a little differently is up here in the objective function-- now, the cell B3 is just the sum of the cells beneath it. And I wanted to isolate out the different buckets of cost. So you've got the distribution fixed cost, which is simply multiplying whether the DC is open or not, multiplied by its fixed cost. The outbound transportation is simply multiplying everything that's in this, right? All the cells I have here times my distance matrix, which I'm not showing on the slide, times my cost per barrel, per mile. The next one is the inbound transportation, and that's simply going to multiply the number of barrels shipped from each of the plants times the cost per barrel. And so forth down. The manufacturing cost is simply this times the amount that I'm actually moving through. And my DC handling is simply the amount that goes through each DC over here in sales N20 to N24 multiplied by my variable cost. So it's kind of sloppy that I'm writing. Let me clean that up just a tad. But this should be pretty straightforward, and you've got availability to the spreadsheet. Get comfortable with it, because we'll use this a fair amount for this whole lesson. Now we're going to use that model to create three baselines. Why three baselines? Well, you'll find out in a second. So let's talk about each of them. The first baseline uses the actual flows. So this is using the current product flows not the optimized flows. And we're trying to answer the question, does the model cost reflect the actual cost. And so, does what the model predict actually match what we experience today, because I'm using the actual flows. The second baseline takes this model and says, well, what happens if I don't flow exactly as I did but I adhere to that policy where I have a single DC going to an assigned city. What does that do? Does that change the outcome? Because now we're trying to say, OK, what if I actually executed better? Because what this baseline is doing is saying, take the current flows, but what if you had a better execution plan? You actually worked to plan. And you can see what the benefit is. The third baseline is saying, OK, take those flows, but now I'm going to optimize the assignment. I'm going to pick which DC should serve which cities. And I'm not going to change the number of DCs yet. I'm going to keep that constant. And does this change anything? So I've got three baselines that I'm going to look at, and each of them does a slightly different thing. So let's start with the first baseline. So I'm back to my model again, and all that I've done here is I've taken the data that we collected from the actual flows from each DC to each city, and I put it here, in cells B20 to M24. This is the actual flows. I type those in because it's a decision variable. I'm using this as a calculator. Essentially all the numbers are going to change. Now I also need to make sure that I'm opening every facility, and that my flows coming into each of the DCs matches this. So I just need to make sure that the numbers I put in cells F12 to F16 match what I have here in cells N20 to N24. If you do that, then you don't need to solve anything. We're not optimizing. I'm just trying to say, what would it cost with these flows? This is costing out the solution. And so I get a number, and we'll talk about this in a second. So that's baseline one. Baseline two-- I'm going to take the exact same thing except I'm going to change-- and I'm going to say, you know what? What if you adhere to policy? Boston should only be serving Boston. Boston should be the only DC that goes to Portsmith. Providence should be the only one doing New Haven, and so forth. This is the policy. Again, I need to make sure that these numbers match the sums. But again, I'm not optimizing anything. I'm just costing it out. I'm using it as a calculator. And again I'm finding the cost, I'm finding a bunch of the service levels, all those things I'm calculating. It's just a model. I'm not doing any optimization at this point. Finally, I'm going to do baseline three. And in this case, I am going to optimize something. And here's what the optimization looks like. This should be somewhat familiar to you and you have this available to look at it. To make sure you understand it. My objective function is just this, just like it's been every time, cell B3. I'm minimizing my decision variables. This is a little different because you see the comma here. They don't have to be contiguous. So these are the decision variables. Everything in yellow is a decision variable. Then I have a series of constraints. And these constraints should be old friends to you by now. They're simply saying that the amount that's delivered out of each DC can't exceed the capacity. The amount supplied to each city should meet or exceed the amount demanded. I need to make sure if I'm shipping something out of Boston that I open Boston. I need to make sure if I'm shipping something out of Boston, that it's coming into Boston, and then nothing gets lost. So you have all these constraints that we've already shown before, and you can look back and look at the spreadsheet to make sure you understand it itself. But all it's doing is tying together all those concepts we've already discussed. So I'm going to optimize it. And what am I going to find? Oh, one other thing you need to make sure you do, is you need to make sure that the p-min and the p-max are set at 5. Because if you optimize it, it'll try to open and close different facilities, so you want to force those to be open. Yeah, I'm going to keep p-min the minimum number of facilities, and the maximum facilities the same number. That's the way to force the number of facilities. We did this before. And those are in cell C and D 33. All that the model's doing then, is deciding which DC should serve which facility, or which city rather. So that's all that it's deciding. So let's look at this for a second, because this is a real solution. I see my cost and we'll compare those in a second. I look at one thing that's really interesting. You probably look Brattleboro, the city. It's served optimally by two different distribution centers. 30 from Nashua and 30 from Springfield. That's kind of interesting. So the models telling us that maybe I want to split distribution to a city. The other thing that I want to notice is to look at the quantity coming out of Springfield. I'm at my capacity. So that's telling me something. Maybe Springfield's a little tight. Nash was not that far away. Those small DCs, they're getting hammered. They're really getting used a lot. What's not getting used? Worcester. No one likes Worcester. Look at very small, low utilization. It doesn't quite make sense, right? So these are the kind of things I want you to start looking at when you have a model, because it's not just the number. The number up here in cell B3, yes it's important, but everything else matters too. So let's compare these. And so I'm going to look at baseline one. And what I'm going to do with baseline one, I want to compare that to the actual cost. Because that should be a really good reflection of what my costs were over the same time frame that I got my data. And I want to see if I'm calibrated. I want to make sure that my model is somewhat accurate. And the rule of thumb is 10%. Where did that come from? Who knows. It's a nice number. But if you keep something, 10%, something around there, you need to be able to justify it. If your model is predicting that last year's costs are twice as high as they actually were, no one is going to believe your model. You need to make sure that they're close and they're calibrated. And you can also look at the individual cost components, and we'll do that in a second. The second baseline I want to compare to the policy. Because remember all I did there was enforced the policy that's already in place. In the third baseline I said, you know what, forget that policy. Let me optimally assign the cities to individual DCs. So here's what we ended up with. Three baseline scenarios, cleverly named one, two, and three. And you can see the costs. The costs go down as you would expect. The actual one had a $93,000, roughly $94,000 a week. And then down to the baseline two, adhering to the policy, I save almost $11,000 a week just adhering to policy. Where does that money come from? Boom, right there. It's all outbound transportation. I'm saving $11,000 on outbound transportation, because I'm cleaning things up. Now can you actually do that in execution? That's a good question. But this is showing the area for improvement. However, look at what I did for baseline three. I can reduce it another $4,000 a week if I optimally assign them. That's pretty good. Notice that nothing else really changes. I didn't allow DCs to change. I didn't allow the manufacturing cost to change, DC handling negligible. The real driver is that outbound transportation. OK so my real question is, which baseline should I use to compare against for future designs? That's the thing that we're going to talk about. Another way I can represent these is looking at the baseline costs. And this is another representation. Same data, just as a chart. And you can see that the big cost savings going from baseline one to three is the outbound transportation. I really reduced that by focusing in on my delivery from DC to customer. So these are just the baselines. This kind of sets us up. And the next thing we'll do is start examining different scenarios.
