Let's wrap up this brief lesson with some key points about analyzing financial performance. Let's go back to the questions posed at the beginning. First of all, how do you analyze financial performance? And we've seen that through a broad set of ratios and ratio analysis is often how it's done. These ratios are based on data from financial statements, primarily income statement and balance sheet. So the math isn't challenging, but the difficulty is defining what's going to be in the numerator and what's in the denominator. And what are you trying to accomplish by looking at these different ratios? And in fact, you should look at several ratios in a context of a framework that allows you to see performance from different perspectives. These different ratios give us clues as to what's going on with financial performance. But you need several, maybe you could think about them as sensors, to see how well your overall firm is moving forward. And we want to use ratios that are dimensionless. And most of the ones in here, margin, turnover, are dimensionless because we can compare with competition. That may be companies of very different size, but we can look at the margins because they eliminate the size of the firm in terms of profitability and look at the pure ability to create profit based on sales or turnover, how much sales can be driven by the assets of the firm. It doesn't matter how big the company is. We can compare. We can also observe trends over time, both in competition and in our own firm. As our firm grows, we can say, are we maintaining the ability to capture good margin on sales? Are we maintaining the ability to get a good turnover of sales depending on the assets we're deploying, even as we get bigger over time? So can look at our firm's performance and see how we're doing on these dimensionless measures over time. And we'll have some homework assignments where you can try to practice some of that type of analysis. We didn't have time to get into that kind of competitive analysis and trend analysis in the lesson itself. How do you measure performance then, is very linked to how you analyze it. The financial metrics are often based on the ratios used in financial analysis. You'll often find things like return on assets, return on equity, hopefully return on invested capital. But there are often metrics in a firm that are based on the things that an analyst, a financial analyst, will use to analyze the firm. However, inside the firm you have different information than what's available in the financial accounting books, and managerial decisions may require that different information. So financial metrics based on income statement and balance sheet won't be sufficient to make the decisions. You may need managerial accounting or specific types of accounting like activity-based costing to give you the information you need in order to make decisions. And in fact, these financial metrics are only part of a bigger picture of information you're going to need to monitor the performance of your supply chain. But the financial metrics are important. And we should make sure that we're thinking about the analysis that aligns with the different drivers of shareholder value. You should keep financial metrics on your radar screen that are aligned with revenue growth, operating margin, and asset productivity. Those are the key things that the supply chain will do to create value for shareholders, who won't have as much influence on the financial leverage. We will have some ability to assess the risk of some of our strategies, but we're really at the core looking at this triangle up here: revenue growth, operating margin, and asset productivity. But we want to make sure we incorporate financial metrics in thinking about our performance and also guiding our strategy. This triangle can be helpful in saying, should we move more of our focus to revenue growth, or should we move to more margin, or should we stay more into asset productivity? You can position yourself and your goals relative to these financial measures to help set your supply chain strategy. Some metrics are better than others. Don't take every metric that's out there as one that you should incorporate. And for example, I think ROIC is a much better metric than return on assets and return on equity. That return on invested capital gives you a clearer perspective on how your firm is generating returns on the capital that's being deployed where the returns are expected. And the bottom line is, supply chain executives should definitely monitor a balanced set of financial metrics that align with the investors' interests but also employee bonuses. So in a balanced scorecard kind of a concept, financial metrics are definitely an important part of it. We shouldn't limit ourselves to only the metrics that look at supply chain performance and the processes that we're monitoring more closely, although those are very important to have on your balanced scorecard. But always include some financial metrics that think about the investors. And employee bonuses a lot of times are linked to financial performance, so make sure that you're incorporating the employee bonus, the financial metrics that will drive employee bonuses and drive the incentives such that they will try to create value in the best way through supply chain management by looking at revenue growth, operating margin, and asset productivity. As always, use the practice problems to learn more. Again, we'll give you some opportunities to do some more of this kind of analysis and even compare firms. Use the discussion for questions, comments, and suggestions. But hopefully this very brief lesson has given you a bit of a picture of how to analyze the performance of your supply chain, and you'll use this information going forward to design better supply chains and manage them for success into the future. Good luck in creating your piles of cash inside your firm.
