So let's see how we formulate the Aggregate Planning Model. It's going to be a linear program. I don't have any binary or integer variables. And it looks complicated, mainly because we have a lot of data. But it's actually not that big. There's only four classes of constraint, so it's not that bad. So let's talk through it. First, the decision variables. So what are the things we're trying to decide? Well, these are all the levers that we talked about-- the number of employees we hire, the number we fire, the total number we have each month. I is the inventory I have on hand each month. O_t is the amount of overtime hours I have planned that my workers will work. B_t is the amount of units I plan to put on backorder each month that's available to me. P_t is the amount that I'm going to produce or manufacture each month internally with my own resources. And C_t is going to be the amount that I outsource to contract manufacturing each month. Now, the objective function, I'm minimizing here-- I know we talked about maximizing profit, but let's start with just minimizing cost over the planning horizon, and we'll get to the maximization in a few minutes. But all I'm going to do is minimize the sum of those costs. So it's the working, the amount of employees I have, multiplied by the cost of employing each person on average. The amount that I hire each period, there's going to be some cost for hiring someone. Whether it's training or just recruiting, there is going to be some kind of cost. The same goes for the opposite, if I fire someone. If I lay someone off, there's probably severance or some kind of penalty that's paid. I can think overtime. If I have overtime hours, you're going to be paid more for overtime for those existing employees. I have a holding cost with the inventory, so in the dollars per unit per month. I can think of backorder. If I have any items on backorder, I will be charged a certain amount per month, like a shortage cost. And then for production, it's going to be multiplied by the cost of the materials. So what's the cost of the raw materials going into the unit times the number of units that I'm making-- again, with my internal resources? And then finally, the contract-- so this is the number of units that I outsource to a contract manufacturer, and that's multiplied by the c_c right here. And so we made an assumption here-- and you can modify this if you want, this is a very simple model-- that if I use a contract manufacturer, the materials are included in that cost. If it wasn't, then I would just add that in. But we're assuming that if I go to a contractor, that's the total cost-- materials, labor for them to do it. So that's the objective function. Now let's look at the constraints. There's only four. The first one is production capacity. So P_t is the amount that I'm producing each month, and that can't exceed the term H, which is the number of hours each employee can work per month, times the number of employees I have plus amount of overtime hours, and that's divided by this l. So this l is the number of hours required to make each item. So this sets the maximum amount that I can produce, and it's a function of labor. How much labor do I have available? Now, I might be able to do contract. This is just the limit of what I produce internally. So this is what I'm manufacturing. I also have an overtime hours constraint where the amount of overtime hours I plan for-- remember, this is a planning model-- can't exceed the amount of workers I have multiplied by the maximum number of overtime hours I'm allowing. So again, we're setting up a plan here. It might be if things are really hectic at the last minute, we go for unplanned overtime. But this is for planned overtime hours. Then I've got two constraints that should look kind of familiar to you. They're conservation constraints. So this first one is for workers. And essentially, it's saying whatever workers I have today, they have to be equal to what I had last month plus what I've hired minus what I fired. Now, I put everything over on the left-hand side so I can set the constraint equal to 0. But essentially, it's the same conservation type of constraint we've seen since the first week of this course. I have the same thing for inventory. So it's saying the inventory I have on hand today is equal to what I had last month plus what was produced plus what was produced with the contract manufacturer minus what was demanded and then minus what was back backordered the previous month plus what's being backordered now. Now, again, I put everything to the left-hand side so I could set it equal to 0, but it's saying the exact same thing. Now, you might want to think for a second about how I'm making those backorders work. Essentially, what it's saying is you need to take care of your back orders. You can't just forget about them. They're not lost sales, and so you have to keep track of those. And this is how we keep track. Now, you notice what we're doing here-- a lot of these decision variables, they're calculated. So for example, if I tell you how many I hire and fire each period, that's going to determine what my number of workers are, because I'm going to set my initial conditions. That's what these inputs are. But that's OK. So we'll talk about this when we show how we're actually solving this. But I wanted to point that out. So some of these decision variables are calculated based on the other ones. So we're going to work this problem. Here's the example. It's called the Dire Wolf Company, and they manufacture various pieces of equipment for winter sports-- snowshoeing, dog sledding, whatever. They have a single manufacturing facility located in Haight Ashbury in San Francisco. It supplies products across the world. While they have many different SKUs, for the purposes of aggregate planning, they've converted all these items into a common unit. And so this is going to be just units or items. And this is common practice. You don't want to plan for each individual SKU. We're getting rough aggregate planning here. The costs have also been standardized on that unit. And they want to set up an aggregate production plan for the next 3 to 18 months. We'll get into the details in a second. But the levers that we have to work is size of the workforce-- How much do I hire, how much do I fire each month? Overtime hours-- how much do I plan on employees working overtime? Do I allow backorders? What production level do I have with my internal resources, and how much do I outsource? So this is the example we're going to use, and we're going to solve this problem and use this for the rest of the lesson.
