This segment has an obscure title, ROIC. It is an acronym. And I'll leave you in suspense a little bit as to what it stands for. I'm going to motivate this by talking about some overall measures of financial performance, some ratios that are typically used. Return on assets, which is our net income over total assets, and return on equity, which is the net over total equity. And these measures can have some flaws, especially when there's a lot of debt in a firm. So we've got-- I'm going to use a simple example here. We have company D, which refers to debt. They have a lot more debt than company E, which is all equity financed. So they have the same amount of liabilities in equity overall, and in fact, the same number of assets, same amount of assets. And in fact we're keeping the EBIT the same as well. So in terms of their ability to create EBIT based on assets, it's the same. But their ability to create income depends on their structuring because the interest expenses can change the income. So let's do the calculations here and show how this works out. So looking at ROA, we have company D, we have company E. So the ROA for company D is the net income of 60 over the total assets, which was 2,000, which is equal to 3.0%. The return on assets for company E, their net income is 168 divided by same assets, 2,000. That's going to be equal to 8.4%. So better return on assets for company E because they have more net income, lower return on equity. So in this case, we still have the same return for both of these. So 60 here, and 168. The thing that's changing here is the denominator of equity for company D, which has a lot of debt, only has 200 in equity. So that gives us a return on equity of 30%. And for company E, all of that is equity. So that's 2,000. So we already have that, that's equal to 8.4%. So you can see that for the equity-based firm, return on assets and return on equity, if it's all equity financed, is the same: 8.4%. But because of the high leverage of company D, the return on assets tells a very different picture than return on equity. A lot of the return on equity is because of the ability to finance. And with only 200 in equity they can finance and get a lot more assets and create out of the same EBIT. But that's going to be riskier because the debt holders will be paid first. So it's a very different perspective between ROA and ROE, depending on the debt structure of the firm. And when we're managing supply chains, we won't make that decision as to how much debt and equity to take on. But it will affect some measures that we may be using to evaluate our performance, such as return on assets. So this is where ROIC comes in. It stands for Return On Invested Capital. So this is looking at the returns on all capital for investors who are seeking returns. So we're not only going to look at equity. We're also not going to look at just assets purely. We're going to look at specifically what's being invested, where we expect it to get returns. So we're going to look at-- and we're also going to change the income statement. Because of the influence of the taxes, we're going to define something called NOPAT, which will help us deal with the fact that the income statement is influenced by the debt structure. So let's define these two firms in our ROIC ratio. The first one is NOPAT, which stands for Net Operating Profit After Tax. So it's exactly what it sounds like. Whatever's the operating profit after tax. But it specifically doesn't incorporate the effect of interest, because we're taking earnings before interest and taxes, right? But we are going to incorporate the tax rate here. So we're just trying to pull out the effect of the inventory, or the interest expense ability to change the nature of our bottom line net income. So it's basically the earnings as if-- after taxes, if it was all equity financed. We don't consider the interest expense. And we're actually taking out the tax rate here to be able to make it an equal comparison. The invested capital is defined as the interest bearing debt and equity. So anything that we have in debt where we're going to be paying interest on it, and the equity is all the invested capital upon which we're supposed to create a return. So yeah, the sum of all sources of cash on which return must be earned. But for example, we're not going to include accounts payable, which is a source of cash where our suppliers allow us to pay later, so effectively they are giving us financing, because we take ownership of the product before we have to pay for it. But they don't expect us to pay a return on that. So we're taking that out. We may want to subtract the excess cash as well, because the effect of the excess cash can be used to pay off the debt. And so that would reduce the invested capital. So that's something that is a little bit undefined. We will probably not subtract out excess cash in our example, but you may have the need to do that in practice. We also want to look at the book value invested capital rather than the market value, because we want to look at the value that was actually invested by the debt holders and equity holders, the shareholders. So that's the definition of ROIC. Let's give an example here. Here is our definition again. Our NOPAT is our EBIT times 1 minus the tax rate. So let's take an example here off to the right, this company. We have our EBIT is equal to-- so EBIT times 1 minus tax rate. And the tax rate is 40%. It's going to be 1,800 times 1 minus 0.4, which is 1,800 times 0.6, which works out to be 1,080. So that's our NOPAT. What is our invested capital? And here we're going to look at all the interest bearing debt and equity, so we go to the balance sheet and see we have long term debt. We'd have to pay interest on that. We don't use accounts payable because we're not paying interest on that. There's no return expected. So we have long term debt. And then we have stockholders' equity down here. So this is going to be equal to 4,800 plus 5,600, which is equal to 10,900. So our ROIC is equal to 1,080 over 10,400 which is 10.4%. So that's how we would calculate it. We come up with our operating profit after taxes. So we are going to incorporate taxes, but not interest expense and the tax savings based on interest expense in calculating the NOPAT. And then we look at what capital we're looking for return on, and we get a number of 10.4%. There's another term that's similar to this called RONA. And you know, it's similar to ROIC. It's also similar to another term called ROCE or Return On Capital Employed. These are all trying to do the same thing, saying what is the return on the assets that are expected to produce profit, which is very similar to the debt and equity upon which we're supposed to create returns. Here again, we're going to use the same denominator of NOPAT, but we're going to divide by net assets. And those, NOPAT's the same as ROIC. Net assets can be defined a couple of different ways, but what we're trying to do is look at the fixed assets plus any non-cash working capital. Or another way of calculating that is looking at the total assets and subtract out the current liabilities and the cash which are non-cash capital. So let's do this example with the same company using RONA. So we're going to get the same NOPAT as before. Remember that was equal to 1,080. It's our EBIT times 1 minus tax rate. And then our net assets is equal to our property plant and equipment, which is going to be down here. It's our fixed assets. Plus non-cash working capital. And that's going to be defined as our inventory plus our accounts receivable minus accounts payable, because we get financing for that. So that's our working capital definition. So it's plus inventory, plus accounts receivable, minus accounts payable. So that's going to be equal to 5,000 plus 2,800, plus 3,000 in accounts receivable, minus the 900 of accounts payable, which gives us a number of 9,900. Now if we calculate that with the other formula, net assets equals the total assets, which is down here, 11,300, minus current liabilities, which would be this 900 here, minus cash, which is up here. It gives us the same amount of 9,900. And in fact if you calculate this both ways, you should get the same numbers generally. I know that financial statements can be very different for different firms. The accountants may use different terms. But you should roughly get the same net assets either way. So what is our RONA? That's equal to 1,080 over 9,900, which is 10.9%. So you remember, ROIC was 10.4%. So it's a little different. And the difference is actually-- remember we had the-- the NOPAT the same in both. So for this one we had the NOPAT of 1,080. And we had our equity of 5,600 and our debt of 4,800, which gave us a total of 10,400. And that gives us our 10.4%. But notice if took this 10,400, the equity plus the debt, and if we subtracted out the cash, the 500, we would get the 1,080 over 9,900, just like we have for the net assets. So I mentioned before, you may want to subtract out excess cash when doing the ROIC calculation. This is an example why you may want to do that. Because if we did that, we would get the exact same number for RONA as well as ROIC. Now you may feel like, well, don't we have a standard definition for what these overall measures of financial performance should be? It would be nice. Accounting is a practice, the ratio analysis is a practice as well. Your firm will have a way of deciding on which overall performances or measures you're going to be using. But if you want to suggest one, I would suggest ROIC, Return On Invested Capital, as a good overall measure. And let's just see how it plays out with our example from before at the beginning of the segment. Remember we had company D had a very big disparity in return on equity and assets, whereas the equity-only firm had an alignment there. If we did our ROIC calculation on this, we would get-- and this is again, NOPAT over invested capital equals, our NOPAT here is going to be our EBIT for company D, it's going to be EBIT 280 times 1 minus the tax rate, which is 0.4, which will end up being 168 in our numerator. And our invested capital is simply going to be, it's easy to calculate here, debt plus equity is 2,000. 2,000. So that's going to give us a number of 8.4%. And if we do this on the other side, of course. The NOPAT, same EBIT, same tax rate. And we still have the same total liabilities and equity. So we'll get the same numbers on this side. But interestingly, the ROIC would again be in exactly the same, 8.4%. So it's giving you the return as if you were completely fully equity financed, if you are an equity finance only firm. But for a firm with a lot of debt and financial leverage, ROIC gives a truer idea of the performance of the returns on the capital that's being invested, whereas return on assets and return on equity can distort the picture. That's why I think ROIC is a better overall measure of return on the capital that's being entrusted into our firm to create returns. So, sorry for the graphics behind you. But you can see ROIC is a good measure for supply chain performance because it is not confounded by the financing strategies that we don't have control over in supply chain. Financing is going to be determined by the finance department. So it'll show basically the fundamental earning power of the firm, which is really what comes from the operations. And so that's what we would like to focus on in looking at the performance of the firm financially related to our operations in our supply chain management.
