So now, let's talk about collecting the data. And the first question you probably have is, what data do I need? Well, there's three big buckets. The first, you need to collect the transportation data. The costs-- understand whether they're fixed and variable. The capacities. And you need to make sure you understand the different components of transportation-- the inbound, remember, things from plants to DC's, as well as the outbound, from DC's to cities-- because they're handled and managed very differently. You need to capture facility data. Again, the costs, the capacities, and you need to understand how they differ from the plants, the DC's, and the cities. Understand how they differ and where they differ. We also need to collect the current product flows. The actual inbound flows to DC's, actual outbound flows from DC's to cities. Because this gives us something to compare to. So let's go through each of these. First, transportation. Big component of a network design. Let's talk about the easy part first-- the local outbound delivery. If you look at the case, what they describe is that everything from the distribution centers to the cities is handled by a local courier that doesn't have any capacity issues, doesn't have a fixed cost, and is simply charging $0.55 a barrel per mile. Easy, because we're already in a variable cost component in terms of dollars per barrel. All I need is a distance matrix. So I go to history. I look at my distances delivered from each of the facilities to each of the cities. If I have history, I take the average, and I see how widely they vary. But I look at each one of those. And so I have my distance matrix. I need to make sure that, for example, from Boston to Boston, that I have an actual distance traveled from my DC to all my customers in Boston won't be 0, like we've done the previous models. That was just for simplicity. Here, you're going to have some number there. They're going to drive some distance. So at the end of the day, we'll have a dollar per barrel, because I'll multiply each one of these lanes by this distance here. All right. That's the outbound. That's the easy one. What about the inbound data? This is from the plant to the distribution centers, handled, now by a carrier. Now, the problem here is the costs are based on shipments, not by unit. And so the shipments have a different cost structure. And truckload shipping-- the same thing with LTL-- they have slightly different components. They might have a fixed cost. And this is in that upper right side, where you see a fixed cost here. This red line. And that might also have a variable cost. But it could also have something like this blue line-- let me just erase those-- where you have a minimum charge. So regardless if you deliver it 10 miles, 100 miles, up to, say, 250 miles, you've got to pay this flat fee. Similar to a price structure in a taxicab. Then, above that, you pay a variable cost. So you have all these different cost structures. And the question is, how do I turn this into a cost per shipment into a cost per unit? That's the challenge. But wait. Don't start yet, because it gets even more complicated. There's some lanes where you know and have history. And there's some lanes where you don't. So let's start with the easiest case. Let's say you have history. And in this case, we have the plant in Scranton. And we know it's going to all the DC's. What am I going to do? I'm going to look at all the historical transportation data. And for each shipment, I'm going to find what did I pay for it, from, say, the Scranton plant to the DC in Boston? Find all the costs. Find the volume-- the number of barrels that went in each of those. And find an average. And so here, I'll have an average cost per barrel for going from the plant in Scranton to Boston. This is what I will use as my variable cost for my inbound transportation. I'll do that for each one of the lanes. Pretty easy. Is it perfect? No. But it's a good approximation. It's the best you can do. You don't want to simply use the lowest possible cost you can find, because you're no guarantee that you're going to actually get that in practice. OK. That's the easy one. What do you do with lanes that you don't have any history on? This Bellow Falls plant, the one up in Vermont that we don't know anything about yet, we don't have any history for shipping down to distribution centers. Well, there's three ways you can look at this. One is ask your existing carriers. Go out and say, hey, I'm thinking of moving something from Bellow Falls to these five different locations. What's my rate? What you'll probably get are what are known as retail, list, or rack rates. They might not be real. They might be really low, if the carrier wants the business. And they might not really adhere to them. They might be really high, because they're just the list price. So you don't know what you can do with it. But it's something you can use. Another way is to build your own model, where you take existing rates and regress them against distance, volume, any other characteristics, and come up with a model yourself that gives you a good sense of what the cost per barrel would be. The other, you can go to third parties and use benchmark rates. There's a lot of sources out there that'll give you benchmark rating data. So this is the hard one. It's always a challenge. How do you get transportation rates for lanes that don't exist in your history? It's a challenge. But you can get over it. OK. At the end of the day, I'll end up with something like this. I've got my inbound transportation costs. These are the known ones that I have from Scranton. And I assume that I went out, talked to some carriers, and did some negotiation, and came up with some potential rates coming from Bellows Falls. Also have my outbound transportation rates. And I simply found these by the $0.55 per mile times the distance matrix. Some things to note. Outbound transportation costs, much more expensive. Makes sense, because you have less economies of scale. You have more loading. The distance, you don't have those economies for longer distances. So outbound costs will generally be more expensive than inbound. Also, remember, these costs are based on historical volumes. Everything that I figured here for these Scranton, Pennsylvania, rates coming into the DC's, I used the historical utilization. Let's say every truckload historically was only loaded half full. Well, then, these costs will reflect 50% truck utilization. Maybe something I want to consider on the side is, well, what would happen if I increased that utilization to, I don't know, 80%? How would that do? What would that change? What it would probably do is reduce these costs per barrel. But what we want to do is say, OK, simply creating a new facility won't change my practice of loading trucks. So I want to isolate that effect. I want to try to mimic what I've got going on today, and not assume that this future network design will all be perfect, and do everything perfectly well. We want to try to, as best as we can, mimic what we think will actually happen. All right. So that's transportation data. Now, let's get into facilities. First, the costs. There's fixed and variable costs. And there's a lot of debate you can have. And people, in practice, will argue both sides. Some people will say, you know what? All costs are variable. Over time, I can change anything. And some other people say, you know what? You're wrong. All costs are fixed. Once the facilities are in place, a plant, a DC, it's set. I've got to pay people. I've got to pay for the power to keep the lights on. There's really nothing variable there. And you could have this argument. But it's pointless. What you need to think about for your model is to understand the impact. What will these two things, how will they impact the design? Think about fixed cost. If every one of your locations has a very high fixed cost, what will the model try to do? It'll minimize the number of locations. Period. It'll try to minimize them, because that's a big penalty. What if I have no fixed cost, but I have a very high variable cost, or whatever the variable cost is, and it's the same in any of my facilities? What am I going to do? I'm going to use all the facilities with that low cost. I'm going to use them up to their capacity. So they will have different effects on your design. Now, when I look at facility costs, again, just like in transportation, we had the lanes you knew and lanes you didn't know. We have two cases here, as well. The first case are those facilities that are run by a third party. So you have a 3PL-- third party logistics provider-- running this. That's the easy case, because chances are, their terms of the contract has both a fixed and variable component. It's very nice and neatly structured. So I can take that, and use that directly into my model, because they will have clear design on how they get paid. The challenge is, what if you own the facilities? Well, if we look at these fixed versus variable costs-- let's this think about them for a second. For the fixed cost, one initial thought that comes to mind is that the fixed cost is the cost of building, say, the distribution center. And that's not what we're trying to get here. That's known as a capital cost. That cost will be spread out over the life of that facility. What we're looking at is what are the fixed costs during my operating, my operating fixed costs during my time period of analysis? So for this NERD problem, I'm looking at things over each week. So you have to be careful about what costs you include. Now, we can also use capacity at the facility. Trying to limit the fixed cost by limiting the capacity creates a higher fixed cost. We'll talk about that later. But the real thing I want you to make sure you understand is when we talk about fixed cost, I'm not talking about putting, say, the $5 million cost of creating it. We're going to talk about what the operating cost, the operating fixed cost is. Those costs that don't depend on the units of flow, but get triggered each time period. For variable costs, what we're going to look at is something called activity-based costing. And we'll cover this in a future lesson. But essentially, it's mapping everything you do in a warehouse to the costs that accrue. So anything that increases in cost due to the increased number of units processed through, that's what I want to include. It could be labor. It could be the utility for power. It could be any materials, any handling. Anything like that. So how do I collect this? How do I find the variable cost and the operating fixed cost? I could look at the accounting data. Another way is to look at historical data and run a regression. So let's say I have a distribution center. And I look at a bunch of different weeks the last couple years. And I look at how many barrels they processed per week. And I look at the costs at each week-- labor costs, power costs, anything I can do there. And then, I run a regression. And I find the best fit line. And there, I've got my fixed cost and I've got my variable cost. And that's one way to do it with the data. There are other ways but this is a common approach. So in our problem, I'm going to have for the plants, no fixed cost but a variable cost. And you see that the new variable cost for the Bellow Falls plant, the new one, is $2 per unit per barrel. And it's $0.75 for the Scranton plant. For the distribution centers, I have both a fixed and a variable cost. And we assume that you calculated those by doing this type of regression. All right. Now, we want to talk about capacity at the facility. Capacity is a funny thing. We all know what it means, right? The engineering definition is the maximum amount that something can contain. The problem is, in supply chain, it's not that simple. We think about the capacity of a location, a facility, even a transportation link, is the maximum amount of product or material that can be processed or manufactured through a facility over a set period of time. So sometimes in practice, you hear someone saying, we're operating at 130% of capacity. In the real world, that doesn't make sense. If I have a pint glass of beer I can hold a pint of beer. Anything I pour above that, I can't have 120% of my pint of beer. It doesn't hold it. In supply chain in the facilities, it's a little trickier because it's not this hard and fast number. It's not a single number, either. Essentially, what we're trying to do with capacity, we're saying there are certain limits to the time I have that it takes to process things, or the space that I have. And the interesting thing is, those can be increased. It's not fixed, like a cup. You can't make the pint glass of beer any bigger by stretching it. You can, in supply chain. You can add labor shifts. I can add a third shift that will increase my capacity for processing material. I can improve the policies and processes that I use. If I switch from manually checking each order as it comes in versus using bar codes versus using RFID, then that might improve and speed up the time. So I might have a better policy that will increase my flow I might have better material handling equipment. If I have to load everything in by hand one box at the time, that's very slow. If I put it on a pallet, I can use a forklift. If I use belts, I can go even faster. So there's different things I can add to make it faster to go through. And then loading docks. I might be able to schedule and optimize the way I use my loading docks. Some could be for delivery, some for pickup, and I might be able to use shared ones. So there's all these different things you can do to change the capacity. In fact, you can think of it as a step function of fixed cost. So I might have a fixed cost at a certain level, assuming that there are two shifts of labor. And it will be a higher fixed cost per week if I want to go to three shifts. Because once I add that third shift, I can't suddenly let them go. I have to keep them there for a period of time. And they're there, whether they handle one package or 100 packages. So it's a fixed cost for that time period. All right. So how do I capture these? Well, there's many different ways you can do this. You can look at historically what has typically happened. What happens during peak periods? For our model, I'm going to assume a very simple capacity for the DC's, the five DC's. I'm assuming there's three big DC's in Boston, Providence, and Worcester, and two small ones in Nashua and Springfield. All right. Last thing to get. The product flows. Why do I need these? Well, I need to understand what's happening today. I can't say how much better an improvement is, a new design is, unless I can have something to compare it to. And so I need to capture what's happening today. You have to resist the temptation to remove all the outliers, and instead of capturing what actually happened, you capture what you wished had happened. You've got to avoid that temptation. You want to capture all the dirty things, and see what really happened. So in our case, here's what we've got. Oops. So in our case, here's what we've got. I've got my five DC's, and I've got each of my cities. And remember, every city's supposed to be served by one and only one DC? Well, that never happens. Look at New London. It's served by both Providence and Springfield. Worcester is served by almost every DC except Nashua. So in practice, they're not really adhering to that policy of single DC to city. So OK. I've gotten the data. What do I do next? Well, next, I'm going to build the model.
