The first suggestion is to know thy project. So what do I mean by know thy project? Well, you need to know a couple of things. First, you need to know the supply chain, so I always recommend that you draw a picture. You map the supply chain. There's the old phrase, a picture's worth a thousand words. It's so true. And so I always like to follow the physical flow from suppliers to customers. It's a nice, logical way to think about it. As you flow things downstream, you can use the score model about where do you source, where do you make, where do you deliver. And I always like doing this on a white board in front of the customers because it's a way to get the conversation going. Because what you're really trying to do is explore and try to understand the supply chain with the people who are actually living in it and own it. So I always use a whiteboard, and I use it to probe and to ask questions on products, customers, and facilities. So for example, I might have a conversation and I have this almost every time I do one of these engagements. I say, tell me about your supply chain. Where do you get products from? And I understand the vendors. I try to understand where they're coming from, how many I have. And I always ask things in buckets of 10, 100, 1,000 because I really don't care whether there's 32 or 37. And people will spend a lot of time thinking, well, what's the exact number? You don't care. You just care about orders of magnitude at this point. So it might be, well, I've got about 100 and they're all in the US. OK, so I can treat those like that. And so what happens to the product? Well, they get delivered to my distribution centers. So I've got these DCs, and I ask them, well, how many of those do you have? And we might be in the tens. 10, 20, 30, 40. Roughly. It's in the tens. Well, how do you get the product there? Well, it goes straight from the vendor to truckload. So each vendor delivers a full truckload to each one of the DCs that I have. OK, so I'm getting a better understanding. What do the DCs do with it? Well, they hold the inventory and then they distribute it out to their individual stores. So they do that with a private fleet. Maybe they do it with pedal runs. So I get an understanding that they have local delivery from here. Well, what are you considering? Why are we here? Well, we're considering a mixing center. And so what a mixing center would do-- mixing center-- it would take product from the vendors right to the mixing center. And then, full truckloads of combined product would go out to the DCs. So it would allow, perhaps, more frequent delivery. So I draw it like this, and I say, OK, well, how many of these will we have? Probably three to four depending on it. So now I have a good understanding of the flows. So then I can start talking about the customers and say, well, are all the stores treated the same? Well, no. We have some special stores, and there's some vendors where we might have a direct delivery-- direct to store delivery-- and so I might want to treat that separately. But by having everything on the whiteboard in front of people, points will come up. You're prompting them to think about things. And you can work all the way through and talk about are the products different. Do you treat anything differently in terms of the products, customers, suppliers, regions? But what you end up with is a picture of it, and it spurs conversation. OK, so that's half the battle, knowing the supply change. But also, you need to know the people that are involved. So who is involved in this? Who is making the decision? Is it an individual, is it a senior executive of a single company, or is it a committee? When you're doing a project with multiple business units, it's always tricky, if you have all different representatives from each business unit, who's making the ultimate decision. Is it a vote? Is it a senior executive? Does it go all the way up to the CEO? It's very important to know who's going to make the decisions. Who are the major stakeholders? Make sure they're in the room. Is everyone there from marketing? From production? From sourcing? Any of the other aspects of the company that might be affected by the initiative that you're engaged in. So make sure that they're involved as well. You need to know whose ox might be gored. It's a phrase because-- this is a supply chain, so someone owns everything. So each individual item, each SKU, is someone's baby. Each plant, each distribution center is someone's own, so you need to make sure you know what's at stake here. And those people need to be engaged as well. I found that it's always very helpful to the person-- you're always going to have a critic. Someone who doesn't believe in the process, doesn't believe in the mathematical models. The faster you get them on board and even make them part of your team, you're turning a critic into an ally. And so I found that to be very helpful. Find the person who has the biggest disagreement with the approach and the methodology. Bring them in, get them on board, make sure you understand their concerns, and they will turn into your biggest supporter. You need to know who else is on your team. Do you have the technical staff? Do you have the right data people? Being technically proficient and proficient in data analysis are two very different things. Do you have people who can communicate well? Because a lot of what you're going to be doing is translating what the mathematical model says into things that the decision makers can understand. You need to understand what decisions are being made. What is the main objective? Is this part of something larger? Are we trying to reduce transportation costs? Are we trying to reduce total costs? Are we trying to merge networks? Are we trying to improve service? What is it that we're trying to do? What's the scope? Is this all domestic within a country? Is this global? Do I only look at a certain segment of my products? Do I look at all my product lines? What customers do I look at? You want to see what box you can fit the project into. Then finally, what are the expectations? Do they want just a detailed model that you hand off to them. Do they want specific recommendations? Do they want costs of different options? What do they want? And try to start with the end in mind. So if you know what they want, think about that as you proceed through the project. Finally, this whole idea of an initial scoping meeting is critical, and you probably have multiple ones. This is where you'll draw that supply chain, and you'll try to understand what it is that people want. You want to establish and set agreement on the scope, the objectives, and the expectations. I'm a big fan of the rule of law. You set up the rules ahead of time before everyone gets very emotionally involved, and you define what does success mean. What makes this project successful, and what is the metric that they're looking for? The more time you spend upfront on this, on planning the project, the less pain it'll be later on.
