CONNOR MAKOWSKI: Hi, there. Welcome to the recitation on the Blink22 problem. This is the first part where we'll be covering the initial cost formulation. My name is Connor Makowski. So I'm actually going to be referring to the Blink problem, like I mentioned. And if you're not familiar with it, I would recommend that you pause the video and then take a second on this right-hand side to read what's happening in this problem and to understand, and start to think about how you would actually want to formulate this on your side. So go ahead and pause now, and then come back when you've done that. So the idea here is we are going to be fulfilling demand in three different regions and we're going to be doing that by shipping products from two different assembly plants to each one of the regions. And there's an associated distance of that. We'll also notice that for each mile that we transport, we're going to have $0.12 cost. So this isn't an exact cost matrix, but it's something we can use to create a cost matrix. So now that we have an idea of what's going on over here in the right-hand side in our problem, we're going to go over here to our Google Colab notebook and we're going to start looking at what's going on. So as I get started, I want to first install the scx package. So I'm going to click Run there. That's going to go ahead and create a runtime for me and then start installing that package for me here accessible in Colab. Now if you're doing Python on the side and it's not in Colab, you don't have to do this each time. This is just a Colab-specific item. Now once that installs, we're going to go ahead and be able to import from the package, so from this scx package, we can import the model from the optimization subpackage. So I'm going to hit Run here. That'll essentially wait for this to finish, and when that's done, it'll run that code. And that will allow us to keep working a little bit down further. So the first thing we want to do is we want to think about how we're going to get our data into Python. There's a couple of different ways to do it. In general, a lot of optimization packages require tabular form that's going to be like a list of lists. Or in our case, we're actually going to be doing a list of dictionaries. That's a very common data format as well. And so you can see here we have a transportation matrix and that's going to be actually a list of dictionaries. So how do we want to think about this? We actually need to think about it in terms of our distance matrix. And so you can see here we have from each assembly plant to each region. And so let's think about it in terms of the assembly plant is going to be an origin and the region is going to be our destination. And so in a dictionary format, we could put our origin name equals A1, so assembly plant one, and our destination name equals R1, or region one. So we can say from origin name A1 to destination name R1, our distance is going to be 105 miles. So we can say 105. So that's how we're going to put our data in. As you can see, I prepopulated this transport matrix. And this, again, is just a list of dictionaries. The other thing you'll notice is that we're actually going to be putting in this cost per mile. That's going to be $0.12. Now in theory, we could actually multiply this distance of 105 by $0.12 and that could give us $12.60. And we could input that directly, or we can compute that later. And that gives us some more flexibility as we try to expand our model in the future. If you know your model is not going to be expanded much, it's pretty safe just to make that beforehand. If you don't, it might get expanded. It might be better just to leave it and expand that, or to multiply this out in some future code. So going on, you can see we do for each assembly plant to each region, we go ahead and create the same exact structure where we have our distance and our cost per mile. Once we get through all of our distance matrix items, you can see here that we actually want to represent a demand matrix. Now following the same structure, we can actually say our demand in units at each region. And what is this? We have a list of dictionaries and we know that our demand name is going to be R1. So that's going to be the exact same name we're going to be referencing up here in our transportation matrix. Our demand name is R1. And we can see what the demand would be. So the demand is going to be 2,500. And so for each region over here on the right-hand side, we are going to put in the demand. And so we can populate out matrix or matrices that allow us to do this in a pretty simple format. And you can see, again, this list of dictionaries gives us a similar format we can have for both of our demand matrix as well as our transportation matrix. And that does tend to keep things a little bit simpler in how we want to manage the code structure in the future. Now again, there are multiple ways to put this in, and you can explore your own way. This is just the way that we are going to be using as our standard way moving forward from our side. So once we have that transportation matrix, we actually want to calculate the cost for each actual arc from A1 to R3, what's the actual cost. We also want to create a variable that can store the amount that we flow on that arc. So we're going to say for t in transport, let me go ahead, I'm actually going to run this real quick. And then as we get down here, we can save for t in transport, we're going to create a decision variable for each item. So we're going to say we're going to create an amount variable. And that amount variable is actually going to use that imported model. Remember that model that we imported way up at the top? It's going to use this. And it's going to create a variable for us. We're going to say model.variable. And you can find documentation on this in the link below the video. There should be a link to the xcs package as well as some of the technical docs. And so you can see when we initialize a variable, we need to provide a name as well as possibly a low bound. And so in this case, our name is going to be an f string, that's going to be this long string. And what we're going to say is for t in transport, so the origin name of our transport item, so that origin name might be A2. Then our destination name, that might be R3 amount. So when we create this variable, it's going to be named A2_R3 amount. And then the next thing we're going to do is we're going to specify a low bound. And essentially, this is just something that exists in the package, in scx modeling package that allows us to say this is the lower bound for our variable. And then we don't have to add a constraint for it later. This just automatically adds a constraint saying it must be greater than or equal to 0. Now the next step we want to do is actually calculate that cost variable we mentioned earlier. And so that cost variable is actually just going to be t cost. So for each item in transport, the cost variable is going to be distance times cost per mile. That'll just give us our cost variable. So let me go ahead and I'm going to actually add a new cell below this and we can print what this is actually going to look like. And so I'm going to print T-R-A-N-S-P-O-R-T, transport, and I'm going to print just the first item. So that's going to be transport 0. So print that first item in that list and we'll see what we've changed. So you can see we have an origin name, a destination name, we have a distance, a cost per mile, and you can see these new variables we just added. So we have an amount, and that's going to be A1_R1 amount, remember we named it that. And then our cost is going to be that multiplied distance times cost per mile of $12.60. So you can see here that we've properly formulated this into our transportation matrix. So I'm going to go ahead and delete this cell. And as we move forward, I'm actually going to go ahead and I'm going to pin this cell to the side of our data cell so we can access that and see it later. So now as I get to my_model, I want to start thinking, what do I want to do here? Well, I'm going to initialize a model object. And to do that, I'm going to call the model. Remember we had here model.variable. I'm going to call just model by itself. And in parentheses, I'm going to put a name and a sense. So the name is going to be what do I actually want to call this model and the sense is going to be whether I want to minimize or maximize. So in this case, my_model equals Blinky22, and I'm minimizing it. And when I'm working on that, I need to add an objective function. So if I have my_model's what I called it. If I go down here, I can say my_model dot add objective. So I'm calling the function or the method called add_objective. And that takes a single input called fn. So that's going to be the function. And that function is actually going to be a subfunction of model called model.sum. And so inside of my_model item, I can actually create a sum, and that's going to be the sum of this list item. So it's going to be t amount, so the amount that I choose to flow, times the cost of each item for t in transport. So you can see here this is actually a list comprehension. So I'm saying t amount times t cost for t in transport, and that'll just automatically populate that full list of my transportation matrix times my cost. And then essentially, like I said, I'm summing that up. So my objective is the sum of those items. Now that is a little bit complicated, but as you get used to list comprehension in Python, that should make more and more sense as you move forward. And ideally, we'll try to keep those fairly simple. Some of the ones we get into later might be a little bit more complex with if statements, and we'll get into those shortly. So moving on, you can see the next thing we need to do is add constraints. And so the main constraint that we have to add here is we need to make sure we're satisfying all of our demand. And so how do we do that? We're going to say for each item, so each d in demand, we are going to go ahead and say my_model.add_constraint. So we're going to call an add constraint method on my_model. And that's going to take in two parameters. That's going to take in a name parameter. And so we're going to use a f string here. And then it's also going to take a function parameter. So let's start with the f string. So we're going to say for d in demand, I'm going to have my demand name demand. And so in this case if my demand name is R1, I'm going to call this R1_demand. And then what is the function of this constraint? So the function of this constraint is actually going to be the sum of all of this. Let me see if I can highlight all of it. Exit out of this cell real quick so we can get this better. So the sum of all of this here. And what we're going to say is the sum of all of this has to be less than-- or, sorry, greater than or equal to my demand. So we're saying the sum of the amount that we ship has to be greater than the demand. There's going to be some caveats here, and we'll add those here in a minute. But remember, this is only for, in this case R1 or R2. And so what are we going to do inside of this sum function? We're going to have another list comprehension item. And what we're going to say is the amount that we transport for t in transport, so we're going to have that. So the amount we transport for t in transport if the destination name equals our demand name. So essentially, from assembly plant one to assembly plant two-- or into assembly plant two, we ship two things to region one. So if the destination name is R1, or region one, we're going to include that. So all the amounts we ship here on these two lanes are going to be included when demand is region one, again, because we have this function here, if destination_name equals demand name. So we have this d. So if our transportation destination name equals our demand name, we're going to include that. And so take a little bit of time and really try to understand what's happening here. This is a really important component of what's going on in our optimization model. So now that we've got that, we're actually going to do that for each item in demand. So for region one, two, and three, we're going to create a new constraint. And then what we're going to do is we're actually going to solve that. So if I go ahead and I run this, you can see that I've run it, and I've solved it, and it's gone really, really fast. It's in 0 seconds, according to computer time. So if I think about this, before I actually look at my solution, I want to just make sure that my_model looks good. And one way you can do that is by calling my_model.show_formulation. So remember we initialized my_model, this model object, and we're going to say show_formulation. So if I run that, you can see here that we've created a really nice formulation piece. This has to do with the way that we use our package, which is the scx package, as well as some of the underlying packages like pulp and how that gets compiled together. And so you can see we want to minimize the cost of A1 R1 amount times the cost to ship it plus this next one, which is going to be the A1_R2 amount. And we do that for all of the items in our matrix and we're going to subject that to those named constraints, remember R1 demand. And we're going to say our A1_R1 amount plus our A2_R1 amount is going to be greater than or equal to 2,500. Now I want to make a quick note here. In some cases, we might actually say this is actually just going to be equal to 2,500. Since we're minimizing cost, we'll never actually ship more demand than we have to. But there are points where you might say I want it to be greater than or equal to if I'm doing integer programming, because of the way some of this multiplies out you can't actually have an exact equality here, because you have to ship batch sizes of a certain amount you have to meet all your demand that way. So in general, you can do equals equals if you're doing a linear programming. But if you start going into integer programming, you might want to shift over to a greater than or equals to when you're minimizing. So start thinking about that. But those are fairly arbitrary, and it kind of depends on the problem in the actual business case. But those are just some notes there. So moving on, we've solved our model, we're looking at our formulation. How do we actually look at the outputs? That's pretty simple here. We can actually call the my_model.show_outputs method. So I'm going to call that. I'm going to run that here. And you can see here that we've generated our outputs. And so you can see our objective function is 136,506.72. And you can see how much we're actually shipping off of each item in our distance matrix for each item in our transportation matrix. You can see the assembly one to region one. You can see we're shipping 2,500 units. You can see that for all items in our transportation matrix. So that is a very brief introduction into the scx package for the Blink22 problem. I hope you enjoy learning from this package and enjoy learning Python. Thank you.
