CONNOR MAKOWSKI: Hi there. Welcome to part four of the Blink problem. My name is Connor Makowski, and in this recitation, we are going to be expanding the model a little further. In this problem, or in this part of the problem, we are going to be adding a distribution center. So you can see over here on the right-hand side, we're adding a distribution center, and the transportation cost from assembly plants to this distribution center is $0.04, and from this distribution center to regions is $0.08. So essentially we're going now instead of from assembly plants directly to regions, we now have a distribution center in the center. So it's assembly plants, distribution center, regions. And then we're going to note that this DC cannot keep any inventory. It's also important to note that the dc cannot produce inventory. It can't make new products. They can only come from those assembly plants. Let's go ahead and let's look at what's going on here. We have a table of the amount of miles from the assembly plant to each dc, as well as from the dc to each region. So let's go ahead and let's look at our transportation matrix. Over here on the left-hand side, first we'll install our scx package and import our model like normal. And then as that's running, we'll go down and we'll start thinking about our transportation matrix. Now the important thing to note here is we might consider having two different transportation matrices. Now that is possible sometimes in problems, especially using a tabular format. That might be something you have to do, is actually do two different transportation matrices because we're using a list of dictionaries in the way that we're using the constraints we have, we can actually get away with keeping these all into a single transportation matrix. So in this matrix, I'm going to say from origin name A1, to, instead of region one, we're going to call this DC1. We're going to say that distance is 190 miles. So instead of 105, 190. And that cost per mile, instead of being $0.12, is actually going to be $0.04. So 0.04. I'm going to go ahead and I'm actually going to copy this item, or this dictionary, I'm going to paste it right over the one below it. And instead of being from assembly plant one on this one, I'm going to change that to assembly plant two. And that dc distance is actually going be 150 miles, 1-5-0, and the cost per mile should be the same. Now moving down a little further, we can see that we have-- the next we're going to actually have is from distribution center to each region. And so now the destination_name used to be DC1. Now we're going to make that our origin name. So DC1 is our origin. And then the destination is actually going to be region one, so R1. And the distance from DC1 to region one is 15 miles, 1-5, and the cost per mile is actually going to be-- what is it? $0.08. So 0.08. I'm not going to copy that. And then I'm going to go ahead and just delete all of these other ones below. And we'll just start adding in the ones that are relevant for us now. So from DC1 to region one, we also have to have a link from DC1 to region two, DC1 to region two. That's going to be 59 miles, 5-9, and that's going to still be the same cost per mile of $0.08. And finally, we'll have to region three. And that is going to be 79 miles. So we are on 79 miles there. So our new transportation matrix seems to be set up. We'll go down and we'll look at our next matrices. Our demand matrix, nothing changes there. Our assembly matrix, nothing changes there. But to be consistent, because we're actually mapping out all of our demand regions as well as our assembly plants, let's go ahead and we'll create a distribution center item. So let's think what we want to call that. Let's call that distribution_center, D-I-S-T-R-I-B-U-T-I-O-N underscore C-E-N-T-E-R. And that's actually going to be a list of dictionaries, just like our other data structures. And inside that dictionary, let's just go ahead and have a name. We'll call that DC1. Again, that matches exactly what we're using up here in our transportation matrix. So now, if our distribution_center is going to be named DC1, we might eventually want to add more data to this. We'll add the data for maybe fixed costs, or some limitations. For now, I'm just putting it here so we actually have something that we can have as a steady state. We can keep our constraints similar to how we used to have our constraints. Now if we wanted to, we could get clever and maybe do a brand new constraint just for this one dc. For simplicity, I want to actually try to keep it this way where we're going to have a distribution center that's mapped out here. So let's move forward and let's actually run this now that we have all of our matrices in it. Looks like that ran properly. Let's go ahead and we'll run everything to generate our transportation items. So I'm going to say let's run this. Let's actually think real quick if we need to add anything here. The cost is actually going to be the distance times the cost per mile. And since we actually added the cost per mile, that was different for our different arc types. So from DC1 to region, we have $0.08, and from assembly plants to dc, we have $0.04. So that cost should still be correct right here. So we're going to have the distance times the cost per mile, and then the amount we actually want to know how much we're flowing on each arc, that actually shouldn't change as well. So I think we're good with our transportation matrix finally. So let's start thinking about what our model is going to be. So let's go ahead-- this model is actually going to be Blinky22 let's call this P4. And we're still minimizing. We're minimizing our cost. Let's think about our objective function. It's still going to be the amount we have on each arc times the cost of that arc, even if those are different types of arcs. Maybe that inbound to our dc, as well as the outbound from our dc. So this actually should still be correct. We're minimizing this function. So that looks good. Let's think about our demand constraint here. So for each item in demand, we want to make sure that the amount that we flow in our transportation is less than the demand, and that's less than the demand if the destination_name equals our demand name. Well, that makes sense. So the only time we would do this is if it is region one, region two, or region three, because we're looping over our d in demand. So in this case, we shouldn't have to change anything here as well. So that looks good. Let's go ahead to our supply constraint. And for each a in assembly, we want to see if our assembly supply changes. So we just want to make sure that the sum of each item in transportation, if the origin name is assembly, so only if the origin is assembly, that needs to be less than our assembly limit. And that seems good, remember, because the only time that anything would have an origin of our assembly plant is if it is our assembly plant, and anything leaving it has to match in that assembly limit. So this supply constraint should still hold, even with our new matrix structure, our new transportation matrix structure. So what do we need to add now to really make this work? Well, it turns out there's an important note here that the dc cannot keep any inventory. It's also important to note that the dc doesn't manufacture any products. So we need to make sure that everything that flows into our dc actually is going to flow out of our dc. And to do that, we're going to create a conservation_of_flow constraint. So let's think about what needs to go in that conservation_of_flow constraint. I'm going to go ahead and just copy this for simplicity purposes, this model sum from our assembly constraint, and we can start thinking about what we would modify to create that conservation_of_flow constraint. So conservation_flow would just have to say that my inbound flows have to equal my outbound flows. So let's go ahead and let's just calculate our inbound flows. So let's create a little note here. So in. Our inbound flows are going to equal the sum of t amount for t in transport if our transportation origin name equals our a name. Well, remember we created that distribution center matrix above. So maybe we'll just say-- let's say if that equals our dc name. Well, it turns out it shouldn't be our origin name, it should actually be our destination_name. So if our destination_name is our distribution_center, that's what's coming into our distribution_center. So let's call this destination, D-E-S-T-I-N-A-T-I-O-N. So if our destination_name is our distribution_center name, these are our inbound to our dc. So what would it look like to calculate the outbound to our dc? Let's go ahead and we'll copy that, and we'll say outbound. And that is actually going to be almost the same thing, with the exception of instead of being our destination_name, it's actually going to be our origin name. So when our origin name is our distribution_center name, we know those are things that are leaving our distribution_center. So we need to make sure that our outbound equals our inbound flows, so our inbound flows need to equal our outbound flows. So let's go ahead and let's create a for loop for that, and we'll start adding those items in as we go. So for dc, remember that's what I call it here, for dc in distribution_center, I want to create a new constraint. So my_model.add, my_model.add_contraint. And that is going to be name. And that's going to equal an f string. And I'm going to also say fn. So that function is going to equal-- force those two sums to be equal that we calculated below. So let's say this f string is actually going to be probably something like the name. So we're going to say dc bracket name bracket. So we formatted that function, underscore underscore. Let's call that conservation_of_flow. So let's go ahead and we'll add a quick note up here that this is our conservation_of_flow constraint. So this conservation_of_flow constraint. And so what does that function actually going to be? That function is actually going to say we want to make sure that this inbound equals that outbound. So I'm going to copy this line that we calculated. Now to keep things simple and just keep it in a way that we can easily read it, I'm going to go here inside of the model sum parentheses, I'm just going to move that down the line. And then at the end of my_model sum, I'm going to move that down the line as well. So this is my_model sum, is everything on this line. I'm going to say everything in my inbound has to equal, so I'm adding this double equals, and I'm going to copy this outbound flow. And this outbound flow is going to do the same thing. And I want to say-- maybe I'll just add these lines just to keep it consistent looking. So essentially what we're saying is everything that's coming inbound, so when it's the destination is our dc name, we want to make sure that equals the sum of everything that leaves our dc name, though, when it's the origin, so when it leaves. So now we have our conservation_of_flow constraint. Now I'm going to go ahead and get rid of some of these bonus lines down here that we use just for note taking purposes. And let's go ahead and continue on our way. So let's actually run this and see if this is going to work for us. So we are running. And it looks like it ran properly. I would highly encourage you to review this, make sure you really understand what's happening here. Make sure you understand why this is going to be our inbound flows and why this is going to be our outbound flow. So really take your time and dive through this conservation_of_flow constraint. It's really important to understand moving forward from an optimization perspective, and especially in network design. So now we've added this conservation_of_flow constraint. We shouldn't have to add any other constraints. So like I said, we already ran solve. We should be good to go. Let's go ahead and look at our formulation and make sure that makes sense. So I'm going to click on my_model.show_formulation. I'm going to run that. Let's go through and look at this. So we can see that we're minimizing the total cost of everything that's flowing, so everything from each assembly plant to each dc, as well as from each dc to each region. And we're minimizing all of that subject to our normal demand constraints. So this is only when things are going into region one. We have to make sure that those are greater than or equal to the region one constraint. Same thing for region two, region three. Now we'll go down to our assembly supply. That all make sense as well. So everything that leaves our assembly supply has to be less than the constraints we have, the limits we have on our assembly plants. And then finally, we have our last constraint, which is the dc conservation_of_flow And this is actually going to be a little different. So you'll notice here that we have-- everything that's flowing into our dc is going to be added. So everything flowing in. And everything leaving is subtracted. And we're setting that equal to 0. So remember inflows plus outflows-- or, sorry, inflows has to equal outflows. And if we just subtract those outflows over those inflows minus outflows, we would just set that equal to 0. So we're just doing that on the back-end. So actually pulp is doing that when that's compiling the model that's part of the COIN-OR package. And that's what we are using under the hood for the scx package. And so that's just doing that together and that just allows the computer to solve this problem easier. So that, we can see our dc conservation_of_flow, that actually is working, and that that's done properly. So let's go ahead and let's look at our outputs. Let's see if we did this properly. So I'm going to say my_model.show_outputs. We're going to go ahead and see that our objective function is 115,872.32. So I'm going to go ahead here and I'm going to submit this as an answer and see if we got that correct. We'll go ahead and submit. And it looks like we did indeed get that correct. So we have done this properly. So in this problem, remember, we went ahead and we added a slightly different transportation matrix. We added a conservation_of_flow constraint. And we made this model work, we edited it to make it work with this new dc in the middle. With all that said, like I said, please go back and review that and make sure you really understand what's going on. And I do thank you very much for your time.
