We talked before during the first segment, on the River Rouge plant. This was the ultimate in no outsourcing. This is the ultimate in vertical integration. Ford owned all factors of production, the wood, the rubber, the iron ore, everything that was used to make steel and wood, and power the plant, and out came cars. The exact opposite is the Volkswagen Resende truck plant in Brazil. There it works as follows. There are certain items that are being done on the production line and each item is being performed by a different company. So there's a company that provides chassis, other company provides the axles, other company provides the wheel, other company provides the engine, the cabin, the body, the paint job. Everything is done by suppliers. Suppliers even providing the internal logistics and Volkswagen is only responsible for the overhead functions. So this is always the ultimate in outsourcing. Now, the advantages of outsourcing are that it can convert fixed cost to variable cost. So it provides some flexibility to adjust capacity and balance work force requirement. It reduces capital investment requirements. You don't have to buy, you can simply outsource. You can accelerate new product development, because the partner to whom you outsource may have capabilities to innovate that you don't have and may accelerate new product development. We mentioned supplier economics and lower weight structure possibly that reduce your cost. And you get access to invention innovation from supplier through this type of partnership. You also can gain access to new markets. For example, Boeing originally outsourced the making of the wings of several of its planes to Mitsubishi, in order to be able to sell jets to Japanese airlines who insisted that some of the manufacturing will be done in their country. Now, you want to focus your own resources on high-value additivity, what's called your core competency. The things that you are good at. The things that give you a competitive advantage. So you don't want to be involved in managing and running operations that are not high-value added. Now, of course, like every other issue, there's the plus side and the minus side. You think about the main example here is the outsourcing to China, which originally was done because of low labor rates. But labor rate is now going up and the advantage of labor shrink as countries mature. And direct labor also becomes a smaller and smaller part of the total cost, because of robotics, and automation, and provision of services. So manufacturing labor is really becoming a very small part of the equation. And in fact, in many countries, labor costs are going up. Supply chain management is difficult when you have offshore suppliers. When you have people who have to fly to China all the time and it takes a long time before the product gets on the ship and gets all the way back to Europe or to the United States, supply chain management becomes more challenging. Lead time may be a problem with suppliers. It may take several months until the product gets into your shop and your customer. So this may be a problem, because during the time that-- during the month or long weeks that the product is on the ocean, requirements may change, technology may change, and you are stuck with certain products. Then there are security considerations. With world-wide terrorism, and Somali pirates, and other issues, the whole idea of offshore procurement is questionable. Now, of course, not all outsourcing is offshore. But offshore outsourcing is a major issue in outsourcing. And usually the main reason for outsourcing is to go offshore and to low labor rate countries. So this is where all these questions come up. There's also a strategic risk. You can create a competitor. In 1914, the Dodge brother turned from a Ford engine supplier to a competitor. The Japanese consumer electronics industry started with contracting for a US firm for radio receiver, for RCA. But then they adopted the transistor faster, and today, there are no TV makers in the United States. Japanese industry and later Korea and others decimated the US consumer electronic industry. We mentioned before that Boeing contracted with Mitsubishi to provide wings for its aircraft. Guess what? Mitsubishi is now making aircrafts competing directly with Boeing. So you can lose the control of the channel to a supplier. More than just a competitor, supplier can just take control of the channel. IBM in 1980, designed the PC, designed the manufacturing process, and had the entire value chain. And then it contracted two small companies at the time, Microsoft and Intel, to provide the operating system and the chip. What became out of it is a machine that was characterized by being a Windows machine and Intel inside. The operating system and the chip were the most important component. And many, many companies could make the box. In fact, IBM left that business. By the way, you can also lose control of a channel to a customer. If you think about the relationship between Procter & Gamble and Walmart. Walmart is now making detergents, which are bread and butter of Procter & Gamble's product, because unlike Intel inside, it now may be Walmart outside. People may come to Walmart to shop at Walmart, not because they want to buy a certain product, but because they like to shop at Walmart. Another example of a complete cost consideration was not taking into account. Marks and Spencer, the British retailer, started in 1998 to move purchasing overseas. It severed relationships with long-time suppliers who would not agree to procure in the Far East. Even though Marks and Spencer was known for British-procured goods, it decided to change. It could not compete anymore, so it forced long-term suppliers to go overseas. And those that didn't go, it severed their relationship with them and started buying from Chinese and other Far East suppliers. It did not take into account all the costs and what happened is the stock price took a dive and went down substantially. And Marks and Spencer was on the verge of going bankrupt. Similarly, the Boeing 787 manufacturing was a case study in how not to outsource. Boeing decided to reduce the risk of developing a completely new aircraft, because it will use new technologies rather than aluminum, which is all kinds of epoxies for the body. So it decided to use not only new technologies, but new supply chain. It wanted suppliers to take on risk and develop a large component of the aircraft. And then they'll put up the capital to do it and then sell the part to Boeing. So these are some of the main suppliers of Boeing. You see they are all over the world. Every supplier was responsible for a certain part of the airplane. And this is just a general view. There are many more suppliers all over the world. The result was delays for the 787. They were years and years for delay and they had to pay compensation for customers. This was the stock price of Boeing at the time. It had a lot of problems, couldn't get the supplier to build the part as needed. Finally, several suppliers have delays of their own. And the example here is the Rolls-Royce engines. It's a good supplier, like Rolls-Royce, even it had problems building the specialized engine needed for the 787. So with this, after looking at the benefits and risk of outsourcing, let's stop with this segment.
