LAURA ALLEGUE: Hi everyone this is Laura Allegue, and today, we're going to work on optimization-based procurement using spreadsheets. So if you haven't yet, please read through the problem statement carefully, identify all important pieces of information we need to build an optimization problem, and meet me back here in a few minutes. Great. So if you're all set and ready to go, let's start working and walking through the EcoPants problem together. Based on the problem statement, we're going to purchase five different types of fabric coming from different suppliers. We can see that four suppliers have provided their quotations for this process, and we also have our demand identified in meters of fabric. So let's now stop for a minute here. Think on all the possibilities that could be out there. For example, if we focus on the meters of fabric, there's always a chance that prices are not coming in meters, that they may be coming in ounces, or linear yards, or even in kilograms, or grams. So it's very important that, whenever you're provided any piece of information, you read carefully if they're coming all in the same unit or you need to make any conversion. In this case, we're talking about the same unit, so there's nothing to worry about. And the time period here is also not affecting our process. Scrolling down, we will find that we also have a capacity, and you can also see here there's a different way of considering the capacity. Instead of having a capacity per type of fabric, we're having a total capacity in meters of fabric. What does this mean? That no matter the combination of fabrics we purchase from a single supplier, that single supplier will only be able to provide a number of meters in total of fabric. So this is very important when we build our model, so keep that in mind. Let's go identify what is it that we need to solve and answer question 1. As you can read in the problem statement, our task is to create a model that will help the company minimize the total procurement cost while sourcing every unit of fabric they need. With recitations, we love to start by identifying all the elements our model we'll have, and with that, we can have a clear view on how to structure and start building our model. So let's think about it together. First thing we always need to have for an optimization model is the objective function. So let's go with that. We talked about the number of units we need, so that would be our demand constraint, of course. And then we also talked about a capacity constraint that our suppliers have, so we're going to have this on the supply constraint here. We also know that there is no way that we have a negative number of units flowing, so let's mark our non-negativity constraint. And let's think together about everything we're leaving behind just in case we're missing something. We're not adding binary variables here because we don't have to make any decision on whether opening or closing something or assigning a cost to a specific machine or a specific supplier. With that, we also don't need a linking constraint to connect our flows with the objective function. There's no transshipment point or a hub that we are talking about, so we're not going to use a conservation of flow constraint because there is nothing that needs to flow in or out of a certain facility. And then we're not providing any reference about a level of service constraint, so we're not including that item either. Let's submit together and see if we got it right. Right. We did it well. Let's go now to our spreadsheet and start building our model because the next question is actually, what is the minimum total monthly procurement cost for the EcoPants? I open my spreadsheet, and we are starting from a blank spreadsheet just like you would do if you're working on your [INAUDIBLE] or just starting this process. So I encourage you to start from scratch. And I'll go find all the important pieces of information I need to bring with me to the spreadsheet. So the first thing is what we refer to as our demand constraint, so I'm bringing it here. I also need to bring with me the prices that we got in our quotations in this process. And I'm also going to bring the capacity constraint we have from our suppliers. OK, let's add this here. And we can work on formatting now our spreadsheet so that it's clearer for us to see. I'll make this easier to read for all of us first, and then I'm considering bringing my capacity into a different format here just to have it in rows, so capacity in meters. And I'm just bringing the information I have down there in columns. OK, so that will help me when building my solver, and you will see that in a few minutes. I'm also going to move my demand in meters of fabric per month here so that I have all the information I need together. So this is meters required per month. Great. I'll make this easier to read again. Now, I don't need this anymore, and I will just start adding the information we do need. As you probably already noticed if you watch other recitations of mine, I like to duplicate this information to build a similar structure for my variables and all my calculated fields. So I will do this here. Of course, there's no numbers yet because this is just variables. So I'm going to mark down where I'm going to include all the variables of the model. And probably you know that we like to color code variables yellow by now if you watch all the lectures. This is not going to be meters required but actually meters purchased per month. And this is going to be summing up all the fabric flowing of each type from those variables table. This is not going to be capacity anymore, but this is actually the meters purchased from each supplier. This is going to be summing all the number of meters flowing in our variables table. So probably as you have seen, we started by moving things around in our spreadsheet, adjusting the table formatting that we were provided in the problem statement, and that's totally fine. And it's also OK if you want to keep the original format. There are so many ways of building a good spreadsheet, and the important thing is that it's good and clear for you so that it's easy to understand in case you need to move on to the [INAUDIBLE] model in the future. Our next step is to create our objective function, which is what we're missing here. So this is our procurement cost, and it's going to be the sum product of all the prices I do have from each supplier, and each type of fabric per meter, and the number of meters I'm planning to purchase from each one of them. I'll close my function and click Enter. OK, so it's time for our last ever color coding our model, and then we'll move on to setting up our solver. Key elements we have first are objective function. We're going to color code this one in light green. So let's find our objective function result and color code it on the same way. Second, we have our variables. As we talked before, variables are usually yellow for us, so that's already color coded. Then we have all the provided data. Provided data, for me, it's great to have it in gray. We don't want it to take a lot of attention from us, but we need to know what's coming from the actual problem statement. So that's all coming from the problem statement, as you know. Then last but not least are calculated fields. You know we use calculated fields when we work on our constraints, so this is very important for us to have handy. And also when we adjust the model, it's very important that we also adjust our calculated fields. So this is why we want to keep a close eye on it. If you remember question 1 results, we got all the elements we need to build our model. So this is where the fun begins. Let's start setting up our solver. I'll go to the Data tab and click on Solver in the Analyze section. If you still don't know where to find your solver or haven't set up that yet, please go to the corresponding section on the solver tutorial here in this course. Let's see what we have here. First, we need to set an objective. So our objective, as you know, is in light green here, so that's my objective cell. In this case, we're minimizing cost, and we're using the variable cells of the fabric type and suppliers. And we need to add our constraints. So we know that all the meters we purchase should be equals or demand. And we also know that we cannot purchase from each supplier anything more than what they have in their capacity, so it should be lower or equal on the capacity of each supplier. Once we have that, we'll click OK. We talked about the non-negativity constraints. I'm going to add all my variables being larger or equal to zero. Just click OK. Then I have my demand constraint, my supply constraint, and my non-negativity constraint. Note that, in larger models, using equal in any constraint could take longer to find a result or could take additional capacity from your computer, depending on your hardware and software. With that, you may consider an inequality instead. So let's think about our options in terms of the demand constraint. Using lower or equal in a model that's trying to minimize cost will force the model to have no flow because we're allowing it to be below our demand. So that's definitely not working for us, and that's not the way to go. However, if instead of equal you use larger or equal the demand, your model will stop once it reaches the total demand. Why is that? Once again, because we're minimizing cost. There is no need for the model to send an additional unit or meter of fabric here because that will represent an extra cost. So once it meets the lower cost option, which is, in this case, serving the exact demand of meters of fabric, it will stop running and will show you a result. I invite you to give it a try to adjust your solver settings to change equalities and inequalities and share your thoughts in the discussion forum. If you still have any questions, remember to share it with the team. And then the last change I'm going to make is changing this to linear programming as this is a linear model. So once I'm all set, I have all the elements I need, I'm going to solve my problem and see the results. It seems solver found a solution. Let's click OK and see our outcomes. We do have a procurement cost, which is great, and we're purchasing the different types of fabric from each one of the suppliers. So we have four suppliers participating in this process, and we're going to purchase from all four of them. This is considering not only the prices but their capacity and our needs. Let's populate our question 2 with this number and see if we got it correct. A very important thing to check whenever you're working with numeric answers is how should you enter your answer. So here, we're told to round our answer to the nearest integer. We don't have decimal places actually, but if that were the case, we need to consider rounding our number to the nearest integer. As it's an integer right now, we're going to just enter our answer and submit. We do have another question, which is question 3, and it's asking, in my optimal solution, which type of fabric would you suggest sourcing from supplier 4? So our supplier 4 is providing us with fabric 1, fabric 3, and 4, so let's answer 1, 3, and 4. We're submitting our answer. We got it right. And if you have any further questions, we invite you to use the discussion forum to find further support with our CTAs or contact us at the course email. Of course, also you can use the Show Answer button to learn more about the model formulation or find further resources. I hope to see you in the next part of this recitation, and please stay tuned for the key takeaways at the end of this recitation with additional recommendations.
