PROFESSOR: Hi, there. Welcome to part 3 of the EcoPants problem. In this particular part, we will go ahead and add some setup costs to our model. Specifically, we are going to be adding some setup costs for our suppliers, meaning that in order to order from them, we have to pay a certain setup cost in order to start a contract with them or to start being able to order from them. So in this case, we'll go ahead and just take our EcoPants part two. We're going to create a copy of that. So I'm going to say create a copy in drive. We'll go ahead, and we'll rename that to part 3-- EcoPants P3. And we'll go ahead and save that. And while we're talking about some stuff, I'm going to go ahead and run these first couple cells. So what do we need to do? We essentially need to add setup cost to each item in our supply. So I'm going to go here, and I'm just going to say, what is my setup cost. It's going to be set up-- S-E-T-U-P, underscore cost. And that is going to be $1,500 for supplier one. So 1-5-0-0. Now, I can go ahead and add these setup costs for all four of my suppliers. I'm going to go ahead and copy in a preconfigured matrix just to speed things up. So our supply is going to get modified. We are now going to say that your set up costs are $1,500, $2,500, $800, and $1,200. So now that we've added these set up costs, we have to go ahead and run some of this-- run all of our data structures here. We'll go ahead, and we are going to go down to our variable additions. We're going to add this amount variable. And specifically, we are going to add another binary variable here. So we're to say this is the amount we're going to flow for each item in our cost matrix. But we're going to actually add a binary variable to each item in our supply matrix. So I'm going to go here, and I'm going to pin this to the side. And we can keep track of this supply matrix over here on the center of the screen. So I'm going to go ahead, and I'm going to run this. I already ran this cell for cost. I'm going to essentially add a new cell. I'm going to say for S in supply, we are going to add S bracket use. We're going to use this supply. And that's going to equal the model.variable. That's going to have a name. That's going to equal some f string that we'll figure out here in a second. And that is going to be a binary variable. So "cat=Binary." "cat=Binary", and that's going to be in quotes. So what do we want to name this? So for each item in our supply, we'll go ahead and we'll call this S name. Oops, can't type. N-A-M-E, S name__use. So we'll say whether or not we are going to use this-- so this is going to be, for example S1 use-- so whether or not I'm using S1. And the idea is I'll create this binary variable. And if this is turned on, I'm going to say, hey, look, the amount of items that can flow out of S1 is only-- this capacity is only going to exist if this is on. And if this is on, I'm going to update my objective function to say, I now have to pay this setup cost. So let's go ahead, and we'll edit that objective function. And we'll go ahead and add some of those constraints. I'm going to go ahead and run this. And just for consistency, I'll go ahead and I'll show what this is going to look like. So I'm going to say Print supply bracket 0. We're going to print that first item in supply just to see what that looks like. It looks like we have a use, and that is going to be-- I'm going to go ahead and exit out of this cell-- S1 use. So that's going to be the name of this variable is S1 use. OK, perfect. So it looks like we've created this new variable, and it seems to be working well. So I'm going to go ahead and delete that cell, and we'll continue on our way. So this is EcoPants P1. We're actually going to call this EcoPants P3. And we are still minimizing. We want to adjust our objective function. So we're going to go ahead and modify this objective function. And we're going to say this is actually going to equal the sum of the amount we purchase of each fabric from each supplier times the cost. But we're also going to say it's also that plus model.sum. And that is going to be S use, whether or not we're using that for S in supply. So I'm going to go ahead and add some brackets around that. And it's not just going to be whether or not we're using it. It's going to be the amount we use times S-- that's going to be setup cost-- setup cost. So the sum of the fact that we are using it times the setup cost, or the cost to use it, for each item in supply. And that's what we're going to be using to add the setup cost to our objective function. And so moving on, we have to codify a few other little things. And so specifically, we have to add a constraint for that setup cost to make sure that we're only going to have-- we're only going to have supply if we pay that setup cost. And so I'm going to go ahead and copy this constraint that we've got here. So my_model.add_constraint. And I'm going to go ahead and copy that just for ease of use. I'm going to call this the setup-- or the supplier name, instead of supply, it's going to be setup. Setup cost. And essentially we're going to say, this is going to be slightly modified. Instead of being the capacity, it's the amounts that were flowing out of the supplier. But it has to be less than the fact that we're using. So S bracket use, whether or not we're using it, times some m variable. And so we're going to say let's create a constraint here that says only if this use variable is turned on and we're paying the setup cost to use this can we actually flow any products through this particular supplier or flow any products from this particular supplier. So I'm going to go ahead and add this m variable as well. So I'm going to go up and add one more cell up here. I'm going to add some code. I'm going to say m equals, and we'll just say some number large enough. We'll just say a bunch of nines. So I'm going to go ahead and run that I've created my new m variable. And finally, we're going to go ahead and run this model. We'll see if that runs properly. It looks like it did let's go ahead and check our formulation. And we will see that we've got some new constraints here. So we've got our standard constraints we had before, as well as this new constraint for each supplier for setup cost. Now it looks like that is correct. So it looks like the amounts that we flow from supplier three all have to be less than this 999 times the fact that we're using it-- this m variable times use. Now in theory, you could shift this over to the other side of the equation, but right now, it just says, hey, it's minus. So this all has to be less than or equal to zero. All right, so it looks like we did create that constraint well. So let's go ahead and we'll scroll down a little bit, and we will go ahead and show our output. So I'm going to say my_model.show_outputs. I'll go ahead and run that. And you can see we've got 78,595. So if I go ahead and I go over to our questions, let's go and fill some of those out. Which of the following components should be included in your model? We'll go ahead and do it. We need binary variables now. We need an objective function, a demand constraint. We have a linking constraint. Remember, that's what this constraint up here is-- my_model.add_constraint. The setup cost constraint is a linking constraint. And then we have a supply constraint and finally, a non-negativity constraint. I don't see a level of service constraint. So I think we're good there. So I'm going go ahead and submit that. All right, that looks great. So we got that correct. And finally, we are going to finish this up by entering our setup costs into the model or our total cost including those setup costs. That's going to be this 78,595. And we'll submit that. And it looks like we got it correct, so that is great news indeed. And so we'll go on to our final part of the question. In this optimal solution, which type of fabric would you suggest sourcing from supplier four? So let's go back to supplier four, and we'll see which fabrics we're sourcing. It looks like we're sourcing fabric one, fabric three, fabric four, and fabric five. One, three, four, five, submit, and it looks like we got that correct. So awesome. It looks like we have properly solved this problem. And we should be good to continue on to the next part. Thank you very much.
