In this segment, we will talk about volatility. It is important to know how to handle volatility because the result of a procurement process between a company and a supplier is usually a contract over time. The supplier is committed to provide some service or some product over time. During this time, prices of some components of the product or service may change substantially. For example, if it's a trucking service, the price of fuel may go up substantially. And the trucking company may not be able to provide the service or they'll go bankrupt. Also the price of fuel may go down substantially. And the trucking company will have a windfall, which we as a customer may want to enjoy part of it. So the question is, how do we do deal with volatility? We will start by having some examples of volatility. The first one is fuel where raw material cost are volatile and likely to remain so. So these are examples of the price of fuel over the last few year. Do you see the price goes up, the price goes down, the price goes up again? The price, in fact, the last few year went down again. It became something like $30 a barrel in 2015, 2016. Of course, fuel is not the only commodity when the price goes up and down. This is an example of copper. And again, you see the price goes up, the price goes down, the price goes up, the price goes down again. It's not low again to reduction of economic activity in China, to the euro crisis, and other issues. This is final example. The price of iron ore goes up. It's now down substantially again, due to some of the same forces. There are two basic methods for dealing with volatility over time. The first one is hedging, either financial or physical. The second one is to separate the fixed and variable costs. And we'll talk about both of these methods. So the first one is financial hedging. The simple way to hedge is if you worry for example, about the price of some commodity going up substantially, you negotiate the long term fixed price contract. And usually you do it in the company's preferred currency. So you also protect yourself against exchange rate volatility, which is one of the things that companies usually hedge against. But the important thing is if you have a fixed price contract, you don't have to worry about anything. That's the contract. Now the supplier takes on the risk. The supplier may have a higher price for this because they take on part of the risk. Another way to deal with price volatility of a factor that goes, or a material that goes into the supplier offering, is to buy or sell a commodity or related commodity for future delivery on a given date at a given price. So for example, let's say you are airline. You are worried about the price of jet fuel. You think ti will go up substantially. So you may want to buy at current prices or some other prices wherever lower hopefully than the price in the future. You want to buy, let's say, diesel fuel. Assuming that if the price of diesel fuel will go up, it will go up together with the price of jet fuel. So you would be able to sell your position in the diesel fuel, and buy the jet fuel that you really need, and it will be at the price that you can afford because you just sold the diesel fuel at the high price. The reason that you do it is because there may be no market in jet fuel for this type of forward contract, but there may be a market in a related commodity. In this case, diesel fuel. Another type of financial hedging, one that is very common, is taking an option. Either a call or a put option. It's the right to buy or sell at a certain price at a certain future date. Let's talk about how this option idea works. So the important thing is that an option to buy or sell is a contract that gives the option holder the right-- and this is very important-- but not the responsibility, not the obligation, to buy or sell something at the given price, regardless of the prevailing market price. Let's give you two examples to see how this works. So example one, let's say the current market price of some key material is $100 a unit. And a company contract for a call option to buy it at $120 a unit. The company's worried that the price will go to $140, $150, $200 a unit. So they want to protect themselves for a certain time, let's say four year, through this option. Now let's see what can happen. If the market price in the future is $140, higher than $120, the company can exercise the option and buy the $120. If the price is $110, the company does not exercise and buys at the market price of $110. You see? It's the best of all worlds. If the price goes high, it exercise, it protects against it. If the price is low, then it can buy the market price. Doesn't have to exercise the option. Let's give an example of a put option. Let's say a commodity producer contract for a put option to sell its product at $25 a unit. It is worried that the price will go down. Now if the price actually fall, let's say the price is $20 a unit, the producer can exercise the option and sell a $25 unit. If on the other hand, the market price goes up, $30 a unit, $40 a unit, he doesn't exercise, and he sells at the highest price. Again in some sense, the best of all worlds. But of course, it's too good to be true. So there is a downside to this option. The first downside is they cost money. Think about it. Somebody is taking the risk of both upside and downside. You have to pay them for this. Second, they expire on a certain date. Very few counter parties. The party takes on the risk, are willing to take it indefinitely. So it goes until a certain date. Also, it is worthless if the price doesn't move beyond the established bound. For example, in the last example, when the producer want to protect itself against the price falling below $25, if the price wouldn't fall, stay $25 or higher, than he just paid for the option and never had to use it. So in that sense, options act like insurance. You pay a premium for a contract that cover the risk. So of course, if the risk is higher, the contract is expensive. So it's more use for its volatile times, but in this case the counterparty-- think about it as the insurance company that offers the product-- it will be more expensive then because the risk is higher. It will also be more expensive if you want to cover small fluctuation, because the risk on the other side is higher. And if you want to cover it for longer time. Again, because the risk is higher because the future is unknown. So it will cost more. You should note for those financially oriented among us, that such contracts are actually assets on the company's balance sheet. Examples, in the end of 2014, Delta had earlier in fact, they hedge price of fuel. They thought the price of fuel would go up, but the price of fuel went down at the end of 2014. And the airline had to take at $1.2 billion write off against the hedge. At the same time, American Airline, which never hedges the price of fuel, enjoy windfall profit when the price went down. In fact, they were able to reduce prices and take some market share from Delta. Let's now talk about physical hedging. It's doing something in other parts of the world, for example. So here you want to create conditions in which the fluctuations are naturally mitigated. A lot of time, use it for currency hedging. Some examples, you build a plant in countries where the labor rates and currency or not expected to appreciate. So you protect yourself against appreciation in some of the inputs. You can manufacture and sell in the same country, thereby protecting yourself against exchange rate fluctuations. A lot of people are going to build plant in China now. Not so much because of low labor rates. Labor rates are going up in China. But because they want to buy and sell within China. Some people actually buy commodity whether they need it or not when the price is low. Some companies are famous for it. When they wait for the price is low, and then they buy a lot more than they need. And they buy less when the price is high. So this is another type of physical hedging. Let's talk about the other type of hedging that has to do we fixed and variable price. The problem here is that we have long term contract. Long term can be a year, two years, five years, whatever. But as before, the price of a key commodity for the supplier is volatile. Example, basic transportation and fuel. Fuel can be 20% to 40% of the price of a truck transportation. Air transportation the same. So a change in the price of fuel, affects very much the price of transportation service. Similarly, if you think about basic corrugated packaging and pulp, which is the main ingredient in corrugated packaging. The price of pulp may fluctuate, and this may mean that the basic corrugated packaging price may change substantially. So the solution here is to tie the long term contracts to the basic functions. So to tie the long term transportation contract to the price of transportation without the price of fuel. And then tie the volatile component to some natural index, to some neutral index that does not depend on the buyer or the seller. Example, fuel for transportation. So let's say the item price can fluctuate substantially. You do a contract, a long term contract for the basic component, and an index based contract for the volatile component of the price. So you have long term contract at specified price for this part of the contract. Let's say $1.20 for transportation per mile for transportation for a to b. And you do an extra payment based on the index. Payment in general, based on the index. And this is the payment based on the index. Depending what the index is, you modify the payment. So how does it work? What are the issues with this? Well, it's not as simple. First of all, it's not clear what's the index price and what's the actual buying price. Think about it. In transportation, the Department of Energy in the United States publishes the average price of diesel fuel throughout the United States every week. And this is usually used as the index for tying for hedging, or tying the volatile component of the price of fuel to the contract price. So the problem is that there's a difference between the average retail and the average wholesale price. What is actually the price that a trucking company is to buy its fuel? Well, that's their business. And you may not know it. Then there's a issue of usage. You want to take into account the productivity. For example, the truck has to drive empty to get to the place of pickup. Who's paying for this empty movement? Who is paying for the percentage of the commodity in the product? It's the how much is there in the product? So how much is the price of fuel in the total price of transportation? And the question is assume efficiency. What's the miles per gallon? How much fuel actually goes in per mile? How much scrap is there for the vendor? And both sides have certain goals. The customer, the buyer, the purchasing department wants long term stability. But it's not the only goal. They also want to drive the supplier towards efficiency. So if they will completely cover for example, the price of fuel for trucking, the supplier will have no incentive to get better engine, to train the drivers, to reduce its mile per gallon, to reduce its percent of empty miles, to be more efficient in general. So the procurement department may not want to cover the entire 100% of the cost of fuel. On the other hand, the supplier needs to cover their cost. Needs to have some profit to be able to stay in business and renew the equipment, and so forth. It also wants long term stability to be able to plan. So both of them negotiate and come up with some idea of what's the fuel surcharge as it's called in the transportation business. And everybody should be familiar with fuel surcharge because at a time when the price of oil was $140 per gallon, if you bought an airline ticket, there was a fuel surcharge added to the price. And this was sanctioned at least in the US, this was sanctioned by the US Department of Transportation. Same idea. So let's stop here.
