Of course, no discussion of distribution strategies would be complete without talking about e-commerce, so let's go over the timeline here. So the first e-commerce players appeared in 1995, right in there when the Internet was still new and novel. Some of you younger students listening to this video can't imagine a world without the Internet. It didn't really appear until 1995. And even then, it took several years for mass adoption. So the first players out there of significance, Amazon, eBay, and there are a handful of other ones, actually launched in 1995. Alibaba launched about two or three years later, and these were firms that allowed customers to buy goods and services over the Internet, using a website with no physical presence. That was a big novelty. There were a lot of concerns. Is it safe? Is it secure? What if I get the wrong product? So all the things that we take for granted today were just being figured out in this time frame. Then, in around 2000, we started having-- the traditional retailers came on. Because prior to this, when the pure players, the Amazons came out, and eBay, there suddenly was an opinion that having traditional stores, all those mortars, that's seen as an unnecessary feature. It would drag the retailer down. Why do you need to have stores if you can do everything online? That was the prevailing thought in that time frame, 1995 to 2000. So you might ask, well, why didn't the retailers, the large retailers, and here I list two, Sears, Marks & Spencer, but you could put Walmart, Home Depot, Target, all of those in the same bucket, you might ask, "Why didn't they get engaged with the Internet earlier?" Why didn't they start, say, 1995, 1996? They could see the writing on the wall, as this would take off. And there's a reason that you might not think about today because now it's much later, and that's the Y2K bug. There was a lot of fear in the late 90s that legacy computer systems weren't coded correctly to take into account a four digit year. To save space in early computer programs, you would only use the last two digits. Because 1967, 1968, all you need to know is that the last two digits are greater than someone else's last two digits and you know it's a later year. Well, that changes when you go to a new millennium, and so the Y2K, or the year 2000 bug, was something that petrified large companies. And a lot of IT resources, tremendous amounts of IT resources, were dedicated at these large companies to harden their systems and make sure that they were Y2K compliant. Massive amounts of effort was placed there. So that kind of opened the door for a lot of these newer startups to kind of get the jump, because these larger, established companies were making sure that their existing computer systems that handled distribution, payroll, HR, finance, all those things, weren't going to blow up on January 1st, 2000. It sounds kind of silly now, but, trust me, it was a serious endeavor, and it took a lot of effort. So, starting in 2000, once we went over the Y2K issue, and it was really kind of a bust, there weren't many problems but, again, a lot of effort was placed trying to harden systems ahead of time. So, starting in 2000, we started seeing multi-channel distribution. This is where these firms would use both online and traditional channels. They're known as bricks and clicks, right? So you had this bricks, or sometimes you'd hear clicks, and mortar. So you'd have two distinct channels and you would have them supported by different supply chains. Why would you do that? Well, there's-- Think about it this way. When you think about a distribution center, or any kind of facility that brings in freight and distributes it, how it's designed is really a function of the size of the stuff that comes in and the size of the stuff that goes out. And you can think of that as pallets, cases, and eaches. And when you're talking about a distribution network like we described before, from a manufacturer to a retailer DC, to individual stores, you're talking at those DCs, pallets in, maybe pallets out, or cases out. When you're talking about providing a delivery to an end-user for an Internet or e-commerce, you're talking eaches, and so it's a very different operation. So initially, they kept them very separate. They managed the inventory separate, the flow separate. They were fulfilled by separate centers, and so they're kept very differently. In fact, the amount of inventory you'd have and the variety would be very different if you went to the store versus if you ordered something online. And so they're very separate. But then something amazing happened in 2007, and that's when the first smartphone appeared. And it seemed like just kind of a neat gadget at first. This is when Apple released its first iPhone. It was January 7th, 2007. And the amazing thing about this, it was seen as a very fragile device, because if you dropped it, it would shatter. It was not really robust. A lot of the applications weren't developed yet, but it was kind of a stake in the ground, because now, what this did, it introduced the idea of mobile commerce. I'm no longer tethered, even though I have the Internet, I was tethered to my desktop, maybe a laptop, but you're almost always tied into a cable. Now I'm mobile. And over the last 10 years, 50% of the world's population of smartphones and 40% of the world's population have solid internet connectivity, so it's changed everything. So how did that change the distribution? Well, it created what's known as the omni-channel. And so, the omni-channel is a kind of a cliche now, but what it really means, it's the evolution or next step of what we describe the multichannel retailing, where instead of having two separate channels, they're really blended. So the firm, the retailer's providing a seamless experience to all the available shopping channels, whether it's online or offline. And so the operations are now mixed between channels. So it doesn't mean that everything flows exactly through, but it's managed collectively. And so what this means, consumers have multiple options for where they research, where they order product, where they receive that product, where and how they pay for it, and how they return the products, if needed. So it's changed a lot of things. And to demonstrate that, let's break it down in two ways. Let's first look at from a consumer's perspective. Our perspective now is buyer's. So what are my core activities? Well, when I want to buy something, I first have to do some research. I have to select, or view, or see what my options are, and make a decision. Then, once I've made a decision, I have to place an order. I have to tell someone, yes, I will do this. I have to determine where I'm going to receive those goods, and I have to figure out how I'm going to pay for that and actually pay for those goods. And, if needed, I need to have a way to return those goods if I don't want them anymore, if something's wrong with them, they're damaged, for whatever reason. So these are the five core activities. And so, traditionally, all the different distribution channels that I showed in the beginning of this lesson, the traditional activities happen at the store. You research at the store, you go see what's on the shelf, you order at the store, you pick it up and go to the cash register. You receive it by picking it up. You pay for it at the cash register, with cash or credit card, whatever. And if you wanted to return it, typically, I had to go back to that store. Not just that chain but that store. Then we introduced online e-commerce. Right? This is circa-1995. Going forward, I would, my research, I can do it online. I could look and see and do price comparisons. That was a dramatic change. And this scared a lot of traditional retailers because, all of a sudden, I can go online and see what everyone's prices are. I can find out how much cheaper it is to go to different sites. I place the order online. I receive it, usually at home. I have it delivered to me through parcel carrier. I pay for it online, usually with a credit card. And then, if I want to return it, and that was a little challenge initially, it's gotten better, but you'd have to coordinate something with a local parcel delivery, for a pick up, usually at your home. So, now, let's get to omni-channel, or mobile commerce. So where do I do my research? Everywhere. I can go to the store. I can go to the location. They call it showboating, sometimes, where I can go in and look, but I can actually place my orders on my own tablet or smartphone. But I can also do my research on my smartphone, or on my tablet, or on my laptop. Where can I place the order? Well, I can place it at the store. I can place it with my smartphone at home. I can place it on my smartphone at the store, and so all these different options are out there. Where do I receive it? Well, traditionally, I could have it at the store. I could pick it off the shelf, still. I could have it delivered to me at home. I could have it delivered to me at my workplace. I could have it delivered to a locker system where they give me the combination or the access code, and I can go there and pick it up at my leisure. You see this a lot of places in parking garages. Or I could pick it up at a coordinated gas station or convenience store, where they will receive these packages and hold them for you. When you come and show your ID, then you take it away. Now, it could also-- you receive it at a store that would, but it's not on the shelf, they have it behind, in the back room, for example. So I place it online. I may go and pick it up there. And there's a name for that, actually, it's called "click and collect." So I click, I order it online. I probably pay for it online. But I go and pick it up at the store. A lot of retailers are doing this for their grocery items. So I place this online, and then I go in, and they let them know when I come around the back, and they hand me my groceries at the appointed time. So a lot of variety here. So how do I pay? Usually, you pay at the store, or you'll pay online with credit of some sort. And there's a variety of different credit systems out there, not just credit cards anymore. Interestingly, as you look at omni-channel as compared to traditional online e-commerce, as soon as I'm allowed to pick it up at the store, that means I can pay cash. And, in fact, some retailers have a high percentage of ordering online but picking up in the store and paying cash. That was an option that wasn't available previously with a pure e-commerce or online. So it's combining these things. And, finally, returning. The policy, as you see more and more, you're able to return almost anywhere. In fact, the online stores, they have to do this because their returns are almost 30%, and for a bunch of reasons that we'll talk about in a few minutes. But it's becoming where there's multiple ways that I can return product, just like there are multiple ways I can receive the product. So that was one perspective. That's the consumer. And, for us buying things, this is awesome. Right? I can buy it on my phone. I can have it delivered to me at work. It's so many options and flexibility it provides a consumer, is almost intoxicating. Let's look at the retailer's perspective, though, and this is all about challenges. And there's three big challenges that I want to highlight. There's many, many other ones, but let's talk about the big three. First, where do I make the orders? Where do I prepare them? Second, where and how do I get that order to the customer? And the third, how do I handle those returns? So the big first question is, where do you make the orders? Traditionally, we're doing these at distribution centers, or we've talked about fulfillment centers where you're more, you're picking eaches. Instead of a distribution center, you might be receiving pallets and shipping cartons, fulfillment centers usually receive pallets and they send out eaches. Now, also, you can think about the store. Maybe, if for local delivery, if someone orders it online and they're very close, I can go out to the store and pick from the shelves and make my order that way. Or maybe I just keep some in the back room and deliver from there. So the store now can potentially be a fulfillment center. It's already out there and has eaches, and it's a lot closer to the customer. And, as we know by now, the closer I am to the customer, the faster I can get it there. So, maybe, as opposed to when we were thinking in 1995 to 2000, having all of these mortar facilities, these stores, was a detriment, maybe it's a competitive advantage now, 'cause I have all this inventory right next to where my customers are. So I can prepare the order at the DC, the fulfillment center, or the store, or any kind of combination. So what this does, it trades off distance. Do I do it from the closest location? Maybe not. Maybe it's a high-end store, and it doesn't make sense. It's maybe more efficient to do it slightly further away, from a fulfillment center that's geared to do that picking or effectiveness. One of the challenges for using a store as a forward picking location is that the people working in the store, those employees, they're not trained at that. They're trained to sell you stuff, not how to pick, pack and ship. So it's a very different match there. It also affects packaging. We've talked in previous courses about primary, secondary, and tertiary packaging. And as I move to the primary packaging, that's there to market for me to buy it. It's bright colors, it's thin cardboard. But, usually, I don't want to ship it in that, I want to ship it in something a little more stable, secondary or tertiary packaging. So if I'm going to pick from the store, then I've got a problem with packaging because it wasn't designed for that further delivery. And then adapting the workforce, facilities, and systems to new tasks. Just like I said, the people selling shoes to you, they don't know how to pick, pack and ship, that's not their job. In fact, do you want them doing that, or do you want them selling product? So you're now taking away sales time from them. Is that a good thing? Also, the facilities are different. So if I'm going to be relying on the ability for me to find product in my store to satisfy an online demand, I need to know what's in my store. And one of the running jokes about doing in-store fulfillment is having inventory picked from your store shelves is like having a DC with a random, drunk person going around moving stuff. Because the availability of product in the store is a hard problem. Most retailers are challenged with knowing exactly what is in stock in their store, and where it is. There's something called "phantom inventory." And what this means, the system says it's in the store, but it's not there. You can't find it. It's on too high of a shelf, someone put it behind something, someone forgot to bring it out, it was stolen. So you have all these challenges of adapting the workforce, the facilities, and the systems, the inventory systems in this case, to these new tasks. And you need to maintain inventory visibility across all these channels. Because I can source from anywhere, I need to know where everything is. And the systems, traditionally, are not suited for that. Inventory within the store was kept separate from the DC, separate from the fulfillment centers. So there's a lot of challenges here. A lot of opportunities. But it requires a lot of synergy between different entities. OK, how do we get the product to the customer? Well, you can have them pick up in the stores, and that's something that's very promising, because people tend to be moving around anyway, picking up after work or something like that. Have it delivered at home, at a third party location, like a convenience store. Amazon is opening up lockers that are located in the back of 7-Eleven stores, and what this means is that, if you order something online, you pick where you want it sent to, and you go-- they send you a code and it's in that locker at the back of that local store for you. Sometimes you have these located in parking garages. You can them located at work. They can be attended or not attended. So there's a lot of interesting things coming out. Interestingly, DHL has been doing this in Europe for about, gosh, 10, 15 years now, but it's really taking off in some other areas. You can also think about how it actually physically gets moved. You might have your own fleet of trucks, which is very expensive. You could use a parcel carrier, whether it's the national carrier or a private carrier, it really depends on the country that you're in. Or you can use crowdsourcing. So Uber is actually used quite a lot to deliver product. Instacart is pure crowdsourcing for delivery from grocery stores and other retail stores. Shipt is another courier. So you have all of these different transportation options that are bubbling up just for that last mile delivery. And there's even concepts of a mobile locker where you have things loaded on a truck that has lockers on it, and it moves to a common location, people take their products, and then it moves away. So there's a lot of interesting things happening on that second point, where and how you meet the customer with your order. And the final thing, how do you handle returns? Well, why do we care? Because it's 30% for online, on average. And that's compared to 8% for traditional retail. So it's much, much bigger, and so we have to think about, where can I handle these returns? Do I do it at the location where they made the purchase? That's a traditional approach. Do I have set up drop points? Do I take it everywhere? Or Do I make it so they can just ship it back? So it's a challenge. And, then, why do I allow them? Do I allow damage? That would make sense, the wrong size, wrong color. What are the reasons that I allow to take product back? And the whole idea of handling returns is such a big item, we're going to spend a couple of more segments on that. But, hopefully, you got a sense of how important the whole mobile commerce and the omni-channel approach has been. In the next segment, we'll apply a quick little problem to look at the design of an omni-channel network.
