The primary type of analysis of financial performance is something called ratio analysis. And it's exactly what it sounds like-- we compute ratios of different things and of different numbers. And those numbers come from the financial statements. We have our income statement here, our balance sheet. And hopefully you're familiar with the terms in these two statements, and we'll use them throughout this segment to pull different parts of the financial statements into ratios, which is simply a numerator over denominator. So it's not complicated math, but how you form the numerator and denominator to effectively tell you something is the key. So we'll pull things from the income statement into the numerator or the denominator. We'll pull things from the balance sheet into both of those as well. It may be on the liabilities and equity side. It could be on assets. They're all going to come together into different ratios that tell us different things about the firm and give us different clues as to its financial performance. Let's start by thinking about some ratios that capture the overall measure of financial performance. And let's start by thinking, is there a single metric-- if we could boil it down to one metric-- that reflects the firm's financial performance for investors, what would that be? And, is there a different metric for executives inside the firm? A single metric that will tell you, how well is the firm performing financially? Well for investors, especially equity investors, they will want to know, what is the return on their equity? Fairly straightforward. And it's calculated by saying, what is the net income of the firm divided by the equity in the firm? And it gives you a ratio of that return on investment, specifically the equity investment. Executives may want to look more broadly than just the equity, and they want to consider the return on the assets that are deployed to create profits. And so, you'll then have return on assets, which is equal to the net income divided by total assets. The assets are used to produce income. How well are we doing that? Is the return sufficient to meet the goals of all the investors, including equity and debt? So we have some high-level measures. We may want to think about some more specific measures, and let's align these with our different drivers of shareholder values. So, first of all, our revenue growth. This is pretty straightforward. We may want to calculate the sales growth from one period to another. So if we have period T, period T minus 1. We divide those two, and subtract that once we get a percent. So let's say we had 100 last period, and we have a 110 this period. We divide those two. We get 1.1 minus 1 equals 0.1, and we might write that as 10% growth from one period to another. You may want to look at the compounded growth over a longer period of time than one period, and you can do that with the second formula. So revenue growth, you might also want to divide this into the growth in terms of sales volume, the actual amount of sales you have in units. You may want to look at the price per unit. You may even look at something-- in retail sector, they look at something called same store sales. So there's some more specific ways to look at sales growth, but it typically boils down to some kind of a growth from one period to another. Operating margin-- it's always looking at, what is the income related to sales? How much of the sales that we're making, or the revenue that we're making, is coming to the bottom line in terms of income? Well, actually, we're going to look at not only the bottom line, which is net income, but at different points in the income statement we may want to pull out a different margin. So our operating margin and our gross margin tell us different things about our ability to create profit from sales. So we'll capture different types of margin by pulling out different types of income from the income statement. In terms of asset productivity, there are a lot of different assets that are used. At a high level, you want to look at our total assets that say, what is our sales divided by our total assets? How are we using our assets to drive revenue? We may want to look more specifically, especially in supply chain, at, how is inventory being productive? So we'll look at the-- we would look at average inventory, and we want to look at COGS. COGS is the cost of goods sold because inventory is booked, in the accounting books, at the cost of goods sold. And so, we want to use that number rather than the sales number, which will also include our markup for the final price. So we'll use COGS as a good indicator for inventory turnover. And average inventory, if you remember the balance sheet, is a snapshot in time. So we can capture a snapshot in time, but we may want to see, well, the inventory might have changed from one period to the next. So we can take an average over the different periods to get a rough approximation. So if inventory went up quite a bit, we may want to take the average inventory of the two periods as a representation. And remember, COGS is going to be representing the cost of goods sold during that period. So the average inventory from the beginning and the end of the period and the COGS during the period was what we would use for inventory turnover. We can do the same for accounts receivable. Accounts receivable, we want to compare that with the turnover of sales that are made on credit. We didn't make-- we may make cash sales, as well. And cash sales are not going to contribute to accounts receivable. So we want to distinguish sales made of credit and see, how often are we turning that over compared to our ability to collect? On the payable side, again, because we're paying the cost of goods sold for things, we want to compare the COGS with the average accounts payable. And again, just like inventory, the accounts payable and the accounts receivable, you may want to average two different snapshots of the balance sheet on the ends of the period, for which we're capturing the COGS. A final way to look at asset productivity is to think about the inventory, accounts receivable, accounts payable, in terms of days. How many days of typical sales-- or in the case of inventory and accounts payable, COGS-- how many days is it taking-- how much days of inventory do we have? How much days of accounts payable do we have? This is actually just the inverse of the turnover. So these two right here are just going to be the inverse of each other. But they are also, oftentimes, more intuitive thinking about it in terms of days. And in fact, if you calculate the days for each of those, you'll get what we call the cash conversion cycle. Let's give an example here to try to work through this. This is an example where we're pulling one income statement, so we're not capturing two. So we'll just use the snapshot in time number for the-- I'm sorry-- for the balance sheet. And the income statement is over the last period. So we don't have the balance sheet from the previous period before the beginning of the income statement. We'll just use the snapshot in time for the balance sheet to be easier. And we'll calculate these six things. You might want to stop the video now and make these calculations yourself, and then check the work. OK so moving on, return on assets. What's our definition of return on assets? Well that's equal to our sales-- actually, not sales-- we don't want to look at sales. We want to look at our return, which is the net income. And we want to divide the net income by our assets, which is total assets down here. So that would be equal to-- we have our net income up here-- 936 divided by 11,300. And if we do that calculation, pull up a calculator. We get, if we round it off, we get 8.28%. So that's our return on assets for the firm. Specifically now, what is our asset turnover? So that's an overall measure. For our asset productivity, we want to look at asset turnover. So here, we're looking at total assets. Now it'll be in the numerator, right? No, actually, it's still going to be the denominator. We're going to look at sales now over total assets. How much-- how often are we turning over our assets in terms of sales? Producing sales from our assets. So that's going to equal to 14,000 divided by-- that's our sales up here at the top-- divided by our total assets, which is still 11,300. And if we do the calculation there, that ends up being 1.24. So basically, we turn our-- we created sales a little bit more than equal to our assets each year, 1.24. We turn it over a little bit more than once per year. What about our inventory? How fast are we turning that over? So here we want to look at-- in the bottom, we're going to have a good inventory. How quickly are we turning over inventory? And on the top, remember, we're not going to use sales because the inventory is booked at cost of goods sold. So we'll put COGS up here. So we'll draw from COGS up here, which is going to be equal to 11,000 divided by our inventory, which is in the balance sheet down here at 2,800. And if we divide those, we get 3.9, rounding up 3.93. So we turn our inventory over more often than our assets in general, and that's because we have some fixed assets and other things as well. So we would expect to turn the inventory over faster. And whether this is good enough or not depends on what our industry is and what our competition is. But we can get an idea that we roughly turn our inventory over four times a year. Let's move on to the next three, and these are all related to the margin. And we'll start with our gross margin, which will take the gross profit up here and divide by our sales. In fact, all these are going to be divided by sales. We're going to normalize our different levels of income by sales. Let's look down here-- equals 3,000 divided by 14,000, which gives us 21.4%. So roughly 21% of the sales we make comes into gross profit. What about operating profit? So for this one, again, we're going to have sales in the denominator. But our numerator is going to be our operating income, which EBIT is a good indicator-- is the right number to use for operating income. I don't like using EBITDA. I like to do things that includes depreciation and amortization. So EBIT over sales, which is equal to 1,800 divided by the 14,000, which gives us a number 12.9%. So you can see we have a lot of SG&A expenses here that are eating into our profits. Our gross profits, our gross margin, is 21%. By the time we get to the operating margin, we're down to 12.9. What about the bottom line? So now we're looking at net income over sales. And here we have-- pull net income here-- 936 divided by 14,000, and that gives us a number of 6.69%. So you can see, by the time we get to the bottom line, our margin has dropped. Right? Because we have interest and taxes in there to eat away at those profits. So you can see at different levels of the income statement-- and everything in our margins comes from the income statement-- we can see how profitable we are. And again, we might want to compare this with the competitors in our industry, and see how well we're doing. In fact, in general-- so here's some advice about ratio analysis. There aren't any correct values for the ratios. The ratios are meant to give you an indication of what's happening in the firm, but you have to understand them in the context in which the firm is competing. So you may want to look at industry averages overall, or, actually, specific competitors. And see how well you're doing compared to the competitors you want to be stronger than. And in fact, this is why the ratios are useful because the-- many of the ratios are dimensionless. And this means that the turnover doesn't have a dimension with it, it's just a number. A margin doesn't have a number with it. It allows you to compare companies of different size, and then be able to not worry about the size of the company. So one company may have a lot more profits than another, but the dimensionless numbers allow us to be able to compare easily across. The other thing you want to do in looking at ratio analysis is look at things over time. Both within a firm-- how well have their profits been going up, or down, or their turnover? Are they getting better returns? And, are they doing better than the competition over time in achieving of those returns? Because you can look at maybe that there's an economic, a broader economic issue that's causing the industry to not do as well. But, relative to the competitors, are we doing well? So you need to develop a framework of different ratios to think about these different aspects because not one single ratio, like a return on equity or return on assets, doesn't tell you much of what's going on. You break it down into some more specific ones-- we've mentioned a few-- and you may even go further, like I mentioned with sales growth having even more specific ratios, depending on what you're looking for. Because in the end, these ratios don't tell you exactly what's happening, but they give you really good clues that can help you tell an interesting story about the financial performance of a firm.
