LAURA ALLEGUE: Welcome back to the second part of the recitation of optimization using spreadsheets, covering optimization-based procurement. As usual, if you haven't yet, pause this video, go through the problem statement, analyze all the questions, give it a try if you want to solve them without us, and then return to us in a few minutes to walk through it together. If you're as ready as I am to start working on the problem, let's do it. So now we know that we're implementing a new guideline based on sustainability policies probably at the company. And that fabrics should be bought from local suppliers from now on. Based on the available information, suppliers 1, 2, and 4 are local, while supplier 3 is based in another country. We already built our optimization model, but it's now time to adjust it to include a new guideline. So let's think on the model formulation to answer question one. What are the elements we need? And do we have to add anything or remove anything that we had in the past? We still won't need a binary variable. We do have an objective function, a demand constraint because that has not changed. We still don't need linking or conservation of flow constraints. We still do have our capacity or supply constraint and the non-negativity one. But there is no need of level of service. So we're working on the same model formulation. So the main structure will stay the same. We're just adding one additional supply constraint. So this is not about the capacity but about the possibility of sourcing from that supplier. Let's submit our answer and see how we did. Great, that's correct. So if you want to learn more about the model formulation or the summation notation, click the Show answer button. Question two is asking to consider a new requirement, so adjusting our model. And it's also asking again what would be the minimum total procurement cost for our EcoPants. Let's open our spreadsheets and work together on that. If you think about it, this is a very simple question to solve. However, if we were to start building the model from scratch, including this new requirement, that would take us a lot of time. And you know time is precious when it comes to timed exams or even thinking of the sea effects in the future. So in order to save us some time, what we always do with optimization models is to duplicate the tab we're working on. So I'll name our first one Part 1. And I'll just duplicate this to have my Part 2 in a different tab. With this, if the sustainability manager suddenly decides that this is not the way to go and I have to return to my previous model, which sometimes happens in a problem formulations, and also in real life, I will be able to return to my old model without taking me a lot of time or risking about making new mistakes. So I'm ready to go with my Part 2 now. Let's double check what we need to adjust in our model. So this is telling us that we cannot source any meters of fabric from supplier 3. Considering we already have a calculated field of meter purchase from each supplier, and that we have this summation on everything that's coming from supplier 3, it's time to just add a new constraint to make this 0. So let's go to data solver. As we duplicated Part 1, all the solver settings are still in place, so I don't need to reveal all my solver settings again. And I will just change or add what I need. So I'm going to add a constraint that says that the meters purchased from supplier 3 should be equal to 0. OK. I'll just click OK. And solve. And close our solver results tab. And just analyze what happened. Right now, we have zero units flowing from supplier 3. If you check back your Part 1, you will see that in the past we were sourcing 100 meters from fabric 1, which is not happening anymore. And all meters of fabric 1 are now supplied by supplier 4. So let's think of other implications that this had. Since we added a new constraint, we limited our model to a suboptimal solution. So now this is optimal under a new scenario. In this case, supplier 4 is taken over all fabric 1 as we just mentioned. But as they do have a capacity constraint, they cannot source over 600 units. So fabric 3 was reassigned also to supplier 1. So I invite you to pause this video, compare your solutions, and try to understand why we have a higher procurement cost now if you are still having an optimal solution. OK, probably you already know this by now, but just in case, remember that whenever we add a new constraint, the solutions can never be better. So same model, new constraints, additional ones. We either have the same solution, considering possibly it was not a binding constraint at the beginning and we just changed something that was not actually affecting our model; or we get a worse solution. In this case, this means a higher procurement cost. I might here play with the constraints, adjust your model in different ways, and see the possible outcomes of your procurement cost and confirm this theory. Let's go back to the problem, enter our answers, and move on to the next part. So once again, I'm entering an integer number as requested, because that's my answer. And I'm going to say that supplier 1, which is the question, is going to source fabric 2 and 3. That's all set. We got it right. Time to go to the next question.
