LAURA ALLEGUE LARA: OK, hope you're excited. We're getting closer to the end of your recitation, and this means we're increasing our complexity. Hopefully, you're going to enjoy this one. This is going to change your model entirely, because this is not only adding a new constraint. So if you haven't yet, please pause this video, read through the problem statement, try adjusting your model, and then join us in a few minutes so that we continue working together. If we're all ready to go, then let's do it. You notice now that we have a new note here. We have a transshipment point. We're going to send all our units from the assembly plant to a DC, from where we're going to distribute and ship all the units to the different demanding regions. So we still have our demand. That has not changed. But what did change is the cost. We are told now that we have different calls for inbound transportation, meaning from the assembly plants to the DC. And a different outbound transportation cost, which is going from DC to regions. This is going to affect our objective functions, and the fact that we have a new note is going to affect our variables. It seems we have a lot of changes to make to our model, but don't worry. No need to struggle. It's going to be an easy change. And if we go down, the first thing would be understanding the new elements of our model. So still, we have an objective function. We still have a supply constraint and a demand constraint. That has not changed. You saw that we don't have any notice on disregarding any previous data point. But the new thing here-- sorry, I missed clicking the non-negativity one, which still remains. What we're missing here is the conservation of flow constraint. This is a new one we're incorporating, and this is because we are specifically mentioned that the DC cannot keep any inventory. So conservation of flow is going to guarantee that any units flowing into the DC needs to flow out of it. So this is going to be guaranteed by the conservation of flow constraint. I'll click Submit, but please click the Show Answer button if you want to double-check the model formulation, and to better understand what is it that we need to change in this model, compared to the previous one we had in part 3. I'll read question 2, but I'm guessing we're finding our minimum transportation cost, which is actually what we're requested. So I'll go back to the problem statement, and I will bring all the new pieces of information with me to the spreadsheet. Before doing that, as you know, I'm duplicating my part 3, because demand still is there, and capacity is still there. And I want my color coding available, so I'll just use this and adjust my model. For this case, you can either replicate part 3, or start building it from scratch. Whatever works best for you. However, as you will need some data points that are in previous parts of the problem, you'll need to go back and forth. With this, I'm guaranteeing I'm not making any further mistakes when modifying anything, but just what I need to modify. So we will then organize our information. But let's first start by adding all the new pieces of data here. And then, we can adjust our model. So inbound transportation cost in dollars per unit per mile, as that is how we build our cost here, is going to be 0.04. And my outbound cost per unit per mile is going to be 0.08, per unit per mile. The additional information we have is the new distance between our nodes. So I'm going to bring it to my spreadsheet. And with this, we're all set to start adjusting our model. So what are the elements we don't need anymore? First, the transportation cost per unit per mile we had before is not necessary here. It's just going to confuse us. So I will just delete this. My demand per region has not changed, so I will keep that. What is going to change is the array that is keeping our variables. Because we now are not sending straight forward from plant origin, but to the DCs and from the DCs. So I'm going to disregard this full table, because we don't need those miles anymore. For clarity, I will just delete all this. We will need the capacity, but I will go find it in a few minutes. This is just to keep it easier for you. And as you saw before, my process for building the Variables table is just replicating the Miles tables and adjusting it as I needed. So this is not going to be miles anymore. This is units flowing. So it's variables. Now you know. And then this is an empty table. I'm going to color code it right away so that you see it very clear. And we can make a couple of changes so that we have all the information closer together. This is my preference. And once we have this, let's think on what we're missing. We talked about the capacity constraint, so we now need to add the capacity back here. We have 13,000 and 3,500. And then we also need to be sure that the units flowing are compared to that capacity. I'm adding the column, just because I want to keep the structure in my mind whenever I go to the Solver settings. And then same. I'm going to consider the region's flow to compare this calculated field with the demand. So just color coding and fixing a little bit of my format, and I think I'm ready to go in terms of the new data points. Remember to also color code everything that is provided data. And we're just missing this. As you can see, our formula needs to change, because we have changed pretty much everything in our model. So let's build it again. It's going to be having two components. The total transportation cost now will include two components, the inbound and outbound transportation cost. As a best practice, I invite you to calculate both separately, and then sum them to create the new total transportation cost. Having separate cells for the inbound and the outbound will allow you to double-check if the model is actually working as we expect. And it's making it easier when it comes to debugging your model, if you have any problems. So just as we did with the profit maximization, where we had revenue and cost in two different cells, this is where we're going to do the same with inbound and outbound costs. So I'm doing inbound total cost and outbound total cost. I will just add one row here to keep it clearer. And I'm going to calculate this. Total transportation cost is just summing inbound and outbound. Great. Inbound total cost is going to be the sum product. And as we talked, it's dollars per units per mile. So of all the units flowing on the inbound piece of our model of our network. So inbound would be units flowing from assembly plants to DC. And the second array would be the miles. You'll notice that on the first part, I did it the other way around. First, the array with the mile. And then, the array with the units. This is the exact same thing. If you are selecting the right arrays, then we're totally fine. It doesn't matter if it's first or second in the same formula. I'm closing the SUMPRODUCT formula and I'm going to multiply this by the cost per unit per mile for this section of our network. And that's my inbound total cost. Outbound is going to be very similar. It's just the SUMPRODUCT of the array of unit flowing, times the miles between DCs to regions now. We're closing this and multiplying by the unit, the cost per unit per mile, for that section. We're good to go with that. And sometimes, we're asked about, how do I make a sanity check, just to see that my model is performing as expected? So my recommendation here is that you test it. If I have any units flowing here, from assembly plant 2 to DC, then I should have an inbound cost, but not an outbound. You see it? It has just changed. Also, if I have units flowing from any DC to the regions, I should have an outbound cost. Of course, these are not aligned. I'm not considering any constraints. This is just for us to test the math behind our model. This means it works. This means that every time I have any unit flowing, it's going to actually calculate the cost. So I'll make it 0 again, not to confuse us. And I think we're ready to go to set our Solver. So I'm doing Data Solver. You know this by now. I'm still having the total transportation cost. That has not changed. It's in the same cell. Even though I adjusted the formula, the cell has not changed. So that's my reference. I'm going to minimize cost. What changed now is that I have two different arrays of variables. So not only one. As I located them in a different place, this is empty. So I'm just going to select the first array, a comma to separate them, and a second array. So variables are all set. You can see now that all my constraints have an error message, and this is because I removed many things. So let's delete. And now I will start from scratch. So we talk about needing the demand constraint. As you know, we are going to do, the units flowing to each region, should be larger or equal to the demand from those regions. I'm also going to consider that the units flowing-- actually, this one, from the assembly plants to the DC should be lower or equal than the capacity. Cannot exceed the capacity. I'm also adding the non-negativity constraint, larger or equal to 0, for my first array of variables. And then the same for my second array of variables. And then I'm only missing the conservation of flow constraint. Because we talked about that, when we thought about the elements of our model. However, I didn't include that on my spreadsheets yet, so we're not losing anything we did here. I will just close instead of solving. This will keep every changes I've made, so don't worry. I'll close it. And what we need here is a place to sum everything that goes into the DC and out of it, just to be sure that it's the same. So you can do it here, just summing up everything that comes in and minus what comes out. You can also do something like DC in and DC out, which makes it much more clearer for you. And you can just do this. This is what's coming in, and this is what's coming out. So I'll go back to my Solver. And I will now tell the Solver that everything that comes in should be equal to everything that comes out. I'll click OK. I think I'm now all set. I will just go with Solve. And we found a solution. I will click OK. And while I continue with my color coding of the calculated fields I missed, please go and try to input your answer in the question 2 of part 4 of the Blink problem. And let us know how it goes. As usual, if you face any further issues or you need debugging your model, please pause the video. Go back. Give it a try again. Or use the discussion forum for further support. Thank you. And we're almost there, team. See you in part 5.
