So now let's look at optimal methods for solving the fixed planning horizon problem. We're going to look at two methods that are optimal-- the Wagner-Whitin algorithm, and then the mixed integer linear program. In this segment, we're going to focus in on Wagner-Whitin. So essentially, Wagner-Whitin is a dynamic programming model. It guarantees to find the optimal solution of the sum of the set of costs and the inventory holding costs. It rests upon two main properties or principles. The first is that the zero inventory ordering property exists. It's a fine point. But essentially, it's saying that you only order when there's no inventory on hand. And it really follows from the conditions that replenishments arrive at the start of the period, shortages aren't allowed, and demand is deterministic. You don't have to dwell too much on it. The second one is an interesting concept, though-- that there's an upper limit on the holding time for demand. And what this is saying is that based on the demand for a period, if I look at the holding cost, the cost per period, and the setup cost, there's probably a period where it doesn't make sense to make it in advance. And that point is where the demand is greater than the order cost or the setup cost times the monthly holding cost. So in our example, if you look at the order cost or the setup cost times the holding cost, it's 500 units. Because c_t is $500 per run. And c_e is $1 per item per month. So if I have a demand in a period for 501 items, let's say, does it ever make sense for me to make that ahead of time? No. It only makes sense if it's less than 500. Because if I had an order for 501, I should make it in that time period. Because I've got that fixed order cost of $500, which I'll be paying for. If I make it in advance period, I'll pay for that in holding cost. So it just puts an upper limit on how much I'd be willing to make ahead of time. Anyway, let's look at the algorithm. And I won't go into as much detail as I did for the silver meal. It's a pretty simple algorithm. And like I said, it's a forward and backward type algorithm. We start at time t. We find the cost for ordering just enough to satisfy demand in that period. And then we look backwards. We say, OK, are there any other orders that I can piggyback on, that I can add my new demand onto an existing order? That's step three. In step four, I look at all my options, and I pick the lowest one. And then I keep going. I go to the next time period, next time period, next time period. So this is the forward part of the algorithm. Then, once I've hit all the time periods, I start at the last one. And I work backwards. I say, OK, for each time period starting with the last one, find the optimal way of getting to that point. And I roll my way backwards. So let's apply it. So I've got the same problem here. And I've got my algorithm up in the top right so you can follow along. And I'm just going to do the first three time periods to give you an idea. And then we'll go through. So for time period one, what are my options? Really, I only have one option. I demand 200 units. I can make 200 units in time period one. What would my cost be? Well, it's just the setup cost-- 500. So that's pretty easy. So now I go to the next time period. In time period two, I actually have two options. First, I could make enough in time period one for both time periods one and two. And what would the total cost there be? Well, there's the setup of 500 plus 150 units I'm going to keep for one extra month to satisfy the demand in time period two. That would be $650. Now, the other option is I take whatever the best plan for satisfying demand in period one is, whatever that was-- and in this case there was only one option. And then I decide to make enough, do another run in time period two. So what would my cost be? Whatever my lowest cost was to satisfy the demand in time period one, which happens to be $500, plus what it would cost to do a new run in time period two just for the demand in time period two. It's another setup cost of $500. So that will be $1,000. Now, if I look at those two options, which is the cheapest one? Option one-- $650. OK, now go to time period three. And so now I've got three options here. The first one is I make enough in time period one to cover the demand in time periods one, two, and three. My total cost would be the setup cost in time period one, which is $500, plus 150 units held for one month, plus 100 units held for two months for that demand in period three. That cost would be $850. And then my second option is I take the best period plan, whatever that satisfies the demand in period one. But then I do a production run in period two that covers demand in period two and three. What would that be? Well, it's the setup cost for period one plan. What's the best plan there? It's $500. In plan two, if I make enough in the period two, that's another setup cost. Plus I'm keeping the demand for period three one month. So I have 1 times 100. That total cost is $1,100. I've got a third option that I can do. I take the best that period two plan. So this means the cheapest I can produce the demand for period one and two is $650. That's this. And then I add in, make enough in period three for period three. That would just incur another setup cost-- no holding cost, since I'm going to consume it all in that period. If you look at those three options, you see the cheapest option is the first one at $850. So I'd go through for each of the different periods this same approach. And you'd end up with this. This essentially tells me option one in period one, where I make a new production run. So this, for example, this $650, means I'm producing enough in period one for period one and two. This one, $1,300, says, I'm producing enough in period five, four, and three for a run that's done in period three. So this is what you end up with when you go forward. And so you tabulate this whole table. Now let's look at it for a second. Because some of this should look familiar. If you look at this top line, what is that top row? That top row is essentially the one time buy. It's saying, I'm producing everything in period one. And this is what the total cost is going to be. That should look very familiar to you. It's essentially saying the heuristic where you buy everything at one point in time. OK, so now we've done steps one through four. Step five is I start at period n, which is 12. And I work backwards. So I look at time period 12. And what's the lowest cost solution? It's this $3,750. So this is saying that the cheapest solution to get to time period 12 for a total cost of $3,750, I'm producing enough for time period 12 and 11 in a run on month 11. Then I want to say, OK, well how do I get to month 10? Because I've taken care of the demand for months 11 and 12. So I look for the cheapest one. And it looks like it's this one, $3,000. And so what does that mean? I want to produce enough for weeks 10 and nine in a run in week nine. Keep rolling backwards to week eight-- what's the cheapest one there? It looks like it's this one, order six. So this means I produce enough for week eight, seven, and six in a run in month six. Keep going through and look at month five-- what's the cheapest one? Well, it's going to be order one. So what's that saying? I produce enough to satisfy demand in period five, four, three, two, and one in a run done at period one. So what I've done is I've rolled forward. And I'm figuring out the total cost of a path to each end state in period 12, in month 12. And then I roll backwards to find the best path through that. So I end up with an optimal production plan. And I can put this in the same table that we've been using so far. And it's 550 units in period one, 450 units in period six, 450 units again in period nine, 550 in period 11. And you can see that the total cost-- $3,750, $1,750 in holding, and setup of $2,000. So we'll compare and contrast this in a second. But let me show you the other way to solve this optimally using a mixed integer linear program.
