LAURA ALLEGUE LARA: Welcome to the recitation of optimization using spreadsheets for advanced network design. My name is Laura Allegue, and we're going to solve together the Food-on-Wheels problem. If you haven't yet, I invite you to pause this video, read through the problem statement, and join me back in a minute so we can start solving it together. OK, you're ready to go. Let's jump into it. In first place, we know that we are delivering boxes. These boxes are prepared in 2 kitchens and are delivered to 5 city areas. So one very important thing to keep in mind every time you start analyzing information is the units we're using. In here, you can see that we receive some information about what's inside those boxes. But if you analyze all the information, if you read through the tables, you can see that the demand is in boxes, that each bike delivers a box. So with that, your unit is the box. This is crucial for your analysis and for your modeling process, because if at any point, any information that we receive is in a different unit, you need to be aware that you may need to make conversions to the proper unit to work with. Of course, another very important data point is the demand in boxes. We have a table with that. So that's going to go to our model, of course. And the next one is the capacity to prepare boxes that each one of these kitchens will have. Start thinking about all the elements that our model is going to have, because that's going to help you solve question 1 in a minute, and of course, to start working on your model in the coming steps. The next element we see here is that the boxes are bulky, so each bike can only take 1 box at a time. This is also very important if we need to make any conversions. Like think of any other kind of vehicle, and probably they can carry 10 of them. So the units would change. The number of travels that this vehicle has to make will change. So even though here, we have simplified it a lot, you need to think that there's a possibility that a problem statement requires something different. The next piece of information that we have is in table 2, and it's a delivery time from kitchen to city areas in minutes. OK, here, we start seeing something that probably is not that common for you. Usually, the most common element that we try to minimize is cost. As you can see in the problem statement, minimizing delivery time is of utmost importance to keep the customers happy. In this case, they are not aiming to reduce in cost. They are aiming for a certain service level. So for them, the delivery time is a critical factor, and they need to minimize it. Our first task, as it's detailed in the problem statement, is to formulate the model. It's time for us to start working on understanding the different elements that we have in the model. So let's go a little bit back into our thinking process on everything we have read through. We need an objective function because we have a goal, which is minimizing the time. So we need to include that delivery time and the number of units flowing into a model, into a formula, so that we can minimize it. That's our objective function. We have a demand constraint because we have a list, actually a table, that has all the demand in boxes per day per area. So that's also in there. We also have capacity constraints, because if you go back, every kitchen has a capacity of a certain number of boxes per day. So that's another constraint that we include. Of course, we always use the non-negativity constraint because of the kind of product we're using here in the model. And if you analyze all the others, you will probably notice that that's all we need here. If you still have any questions, after you submit your answer, click the Show Answer button and revisit the model formulation in a similar approach to the one that you have learned throughout the lectures. As a best practice, I would say always use the Show Answer button. Even if you have a correct answer, you want to know what's in there in the explanation that could help you take your knowledge to the next level. The next question is going to take us to the spreadsheet. So once again, pause this video. Give it a try by yourself. You do have all the elements you need to do it by yourself using the knowledge from the lecture, and of course, previous recitations if you watch any of those. And I would love to see you back in a few minutes. So that we go through it together, we double check your work, and we fix it or help you start your model if you're still struggling a little bit with it. Let's start populating our spreadsheet with all the information we have from the problem statement so that we can start building our model. The first element we have is the demand in boxes. I'm going to copy-paste this here. This is going to be demand in boxes. It's per day, of course. In this case, as we talked, everything is in boxes per day, so no conversion needed. So I won't clarify. But just in case, keep that in mind. This is just the format and the titles I'm using, but feel free to use it and create your spreadsheet in the best way for you to be clear, to understand it, to know where to go back if you need to debug your model, and to know how to adjust your model if that's needed at some point. I'll copy all my tables first. So this is the delivery time from kitchen to city area. This is kitchen 1 and kitchen 2. And the next element I want to bring here is the capacity per kitchen. So capacity, boxes, also per day, is 250 for kitchen 1 and 350 for kitchen 2. OK. I think with that, I am ready to go. Yep. Everything we need is on our spreadsheet now, So let's start working in order to create the model to identify what's the minimum total delivery time per day in minutes for this network to satisfy our demand. Let's work on it. Let's start thinking about all the elements we need to create our model. One of those is the transportation time. This is going to be necessary. And it's going to be where we place our objective function in our next steps. So that's going to be the first addition I'm going to make to my model. We need to have our variables set to calculate that. So let's think our transportation time is going to be calculated in terms of the number of units flowing. We are talking about boxes. so it's the number of units flowing from each one of the kitchens to each one of the areas, right. So we're going to do a sum product of two arrays. One is the array of the minutes between those kitchens and areas, and the other one is the array of units flowing between the same two. We're still missing here the variables, so we need to add that table so that we can start working on the objective function. To make it easy for me to build the model, I really like to copy the same table and just make it empty, and color-code it. I'm going to go there in a minute. So I will just do this, copy-paste. This is going to be empty. And as I mentioned, I really like to color code everything, because that helps me when building the model not to miss any element. And also, if anything goes wrong, that helps me debug it. So I'm going to type here what every color represents for me. So yellow for me are the variables, OK. I also really like to have the objective function with the colors. So I'm going to do this here. At some point, I also think it's very important to have two more elements with color coding. One of them is the provided data. This is everything that's coming from the problem statement. I color-code that because I think it's very important to identify what's possibly changing from one problem statement to the other. So I really like to double check all my color coded as provided data every time I switch to a next part of the problem. So I'll do that. And I will go with gray for this. Please consider to make it as you think it's best for you. This is not one rule for everything. This is just what works for me. As I mentioned, there was another element, which is the calculated fields. So calculated fields are everything we need so that we complete our constraints. Remember that we have a left-hand side and a right-hand side of every constraint. One of those elements, which is the constraint, is going to probably come from the problem statement, so you know that you cannot produce any more of x number of units. But how many units are we actually sending to each one of the areas? That information is the calculated field. So in order to be able to create your constraints, once we go to the solver, you need to add those. So I'm going to do that. So one of the calculated fields is going to be the units sent by each kitchen, so flow from kitchens. And the other calculated field I'm going to add is how many units each one of the areas is receiving, because I need to compare that with the demand, so to make sure that every area receives the units they need, OK. So this is going to be flow to areas. And I'm going to just sum everything we have said, from the 2 Kitchens to each one of the areas. OK, I'm going to color code this. So I need to still type here that this is a calculated field. And I haven't yet worked on my objective function. We talked about it, but we need to include it into our model. So this is, as we talk, a sum product of 2 arrays. One of them is the number of minutes from each kitchen to each area. The other one is how many units of boxes per day are flowing between those. And with that, we are all set to start working on our solver parameters. I'll go to Data and Solver. And my objective function, I color-coded it in green. This is the cell I'm going to pick. That makes it very easy for me. The next thing I'm asked is whether I want to maximize, minimize or find a specific value for my objective function. You know we want to minimize the time, so just go through the problem statement. The next element is identifying the variables. I have them in yellow, so that's an easy find for me. And next, we need to work on the constraints. We're going to first consider the demand as one of the constraints. We need to satisfy the demand from each one of the areas, and we usually say we need to send at least the number of units they demand. Let's think about what's happening with our model when we select larger or equal instead of equal to the demand. The most immediate reaction would probably be that the flow to each one of the areas should be equal to the number of units they demanded. However, if we have the chance to use an inequality instead to obtain the exact same results, it's usually recommended. Using equalities makes it much more strict for the computational process to identify on a smaller, feasible region a solution for us. If we have the opportunity to relax those constraints, we allow the model to be much more efficient and fast into solving our model. At this point, you may think, of course I'm just using less than 20 data points, a few variables. Why should I care about speeding up the process or making it easier for this to run for me? But at the end of the day, you need to think that if you're working with a software that manages massive amounts of data, you really want to make it as efficient as possible. So it's a good practice to use this inequality constraint. Would this affect my model? So it's very important that you understand the problem you're solving and the effect any changes you make into equalities or inequalities for your constraints would have. Let's think of this company and this network. We're minimizing time. If we tell the model to send as many units as demanded, exactly the same units, we're going to find a solution because this model is feasible. We can produce the number of units that we are demanded. So there's a feasible solution and we're going to get that. If we use larger or equal to the demand, what's going to happen? So the fact that we're minimizing time, and the fact that one more unit that flows will necessarily increase the time, means that there is no way the model will send more units than the ones that it needs to send. So if I tell the model, send at least this number of units, that's the exact number of units the model is going to send to each area. This is going to be different if we're talking about maximizing profit. If you tell a model that you need to maximize profit, and each unit represents an increased profit because for every unit flowing, the revenue is higher than the cost, so you do have a profit for any unit flowing, and you use larger or equal to the demand, the model will send as many units as it has possible. If it has a capacity constraint, it will use full capacity to send all units to all demanding areas. And that's because you're telling the model, I want more profit, and the model identifies that more units represent more profit. OK, let's go back to the spreadsheet. So the flow to areas is going to be larger or equal to the demand from those areas, based on what we talked. And I also need to add the one that says that the flow from the kitchens cannot be higher than the capacity, so it's lower or equal to the capacity constraint from each one of the Kitchens. So we have those ranges there. And the next thing we have is the non-negativity constraint. We talked about that already. So this says that any one of the variables should be larger or equal to zero. I'm going to click OK. And then remember, we're solving a simple linear programming kind of model. I will just click Solve. And I invite you to populate your answer in question 2. Let me know how it goes. If we got it right, I'll see you in the next part of this recitation. If you still have any questions, remember to reach out to us using the forums, or just go back to the beginning of the video. Let's work on it together so that you get a successful result here before moving to part 2. And I hope to see you there.
