So now let's talk about how to build in flexibility into a network design model. We're going to return to our WUWU example, where we have three plants going through two distribution centers to three customer regions. We're going to modify it slightly. So we're going to call this WUWU2. And we just modify the data little bit. This the data that we had before. And the only things I changed were the price of three of the flows from Dallas to Atlanta. And Chicago and Dallas through Boston for product two. And I increased the capacity at each of the plants for different products. I did this to get a certain result. And it'll make sense in a second. So with these data, I solve the exact same problem in my solution. Looked like this. Very different from the previous one. We see the total cost, 6,625. But that's the least interesting part. The most interesting part is what happened. It looks like Chicago, Dallas, and Miami now each produce one product each. And each of those products is only produced in one location. This is known as a dedicated solution. Chicago produces only product 1. And product 1 is only produced in Chicago. Same thing with product 2 in Dallas and product 3 in Miami. So if I look through the distribution to New York, Pennsylvania, and Virginia, it looks somewhat the same once you get past the distribution centers. But the big difference here is that each of the products is only produced in one location. So that's the change of the results. We're just changing three or four of the pieces of information for the input. So the question is is this good or bad? Which is better? Is it better to have every plant producing every product or just have dedicated so that each product is produced in one and only one plant? And as with any complicated decision, it depends. So there are pros and cons. Let's talk about the pros. On the pros if I have a plant that's only making one product, I'm going to have huge economies of scale. Because I can leverage equipment, I can leverage labor, all those kind of things. So I have big economies of scale if I centralize and produce all the product in one location. Second, I can get additional expertise. Because if I'm producing one product, then all my people, my processes, my equipment, my technology could be geared to that one product. And it'll probably make it even better. It'll make it more efficient. And I'll gain a lot of expertise. However, there are also cons here. And here are two big ones. If I put all my eggs in one basket, which I'm doing here for each of the products. For example for product 1, it's only been produced in Chicago, then my risk exposure just got really big. Because what happens if something happens in Chicago such as a fire or bad weather or a strike? Something happens where my Chicago plant cannot produce product 1, then I'm out of luck. That's the only place I'm producing product 1 as opposed to if I had multiple locations producing it. So putting all your eggs in one basket does expose you to more risk. It also lessens your ability to respond to changes in demand. Because let's say there's a sudden peak or a surge in demand for product 1. If Chicago's already out at capacity, then they can't produce anymore. So they are not able to respond to that change in demand. And they're not able to be flexible. So there are pros and cons. And it's not always that companies will always go one way. There are strong points here. And there's strong points here. So it's really a complicated decision. But let's talk about some different ways that we can handle uncertainty in the demand. And we're going to talk about the flexibility buffer. But we've already learned a couple different ways that we can handle uncertainty in demand. So this is our situation. It's a dedicated system in that each product is only produced in one plant location. And so if I wanted to handle uncertainty here. If I'm worried about that there might be peak demand for product 1, can the Chicago plant handle it? Well, I could introduce capacity buffers. So instead of having the capacity at 250 units, I could increase this. Say it's 400. I build extra capacity there so if there is surge, I can take care of it. So I get rid of the capacity constraint. That's known as a capacity buffer. I could also create a time buffer. Let's say the existing service standard is that I respond to each demand in one week. Well, if I can somehow convince my customers to increase that to two weeks, then now I've increased a time buffer. I have two weeks to satisfy an order instead of just one. So buying me more time allows me to react to surges in demand. A third is an inventory buffer. This is safety stock or even anticipatory stock. If I build ahead of time so that I can handle any surges in demand. Because I already have extra inventory there above what I expect to need, but it's safety stock. So we know how to do all three of those. But let me show you a third-- or a fourth, rather, that's a little more interesting and is tied to how I allocate what gets manufactured where. And this is known as a flexibility buffer. And it was first introduced by Jordan and Graves in '95. And the idea is this, I can have two extreme solutions here. One, we've just seen, is the dedicated system. The other is one with total flexibility, where instead of each plant only produces one, each plant produces all the products. And you see how that would add a lot of flexibility because if demand surged for product 1, I could spread that capacity and that manufacturing need across all three plants. But this is very expensive. I lose my economies of scale. I don't have as good of expertise. Transportation cost will increase. If I force a solution like this into my WUWU2, it'll be much more expensive because I'm forcing flow where wouldn't normally go to achieve lowest cost. So what Jordan and Graves recommended, which is very clever, is saying, well, there's probably a solution between dedicated and total. And what they came up with is the idea of chaining. And the idea is that the Chicago plant in this case would produce product 1 and 2, the Dallas plant will produce 2 and 3, the Miami plant will produce 3 and 1. The idea that each plant-- each product rather-- is produced in two locations, two plants, gives it some flexibility, some back up. So if there is a surge, you could spill that over to the other backup plant. And it's chained. So it's not all going to one. So it adds a lot of flexibility at a much lower cost than this total flexibility option. So the things that they noted is that this chain flexibility can deliver the majority of the benefits as total flexibility. It's really interesting how just adding one extra one, that second option, really satisfies a lot of the need when you have flexibility or uncertainty in demand. And they also found that longer chains provide more benefits than shorter chains. So what I like about this, it's using the network design to give you better flexibility. Now, the optimization model will rarely, if ever, it'll be luck if it comes out with this solution. It's probably going to be some mix. But what you can do is force the solution to happen. Is see what it would cost to do this because the thing you're protecting against is uncertainty or volatility in your demand. And, remember, these are mixed integer linear programs so you don't have really any stochastic or random variables in there. So what you're doing is you're planning for it to handle that variability. It will not give you the lowest cost optimal solution out of a mixed integer linear program. But it will probably give you better flexibility in real life. So it's just an interesting concept that's very widely accepted and widely utilized. And it increases the flexibility simply by what plants produce which products.
