As I mentioned in the introduction to this lesson, one of the challenges in procurement optimization is to take advantage of economies of scope. And this can be done with what's called combinatorial auction or combinatorial procurement, and this is the subject of this particular segment. So let's talk about economies of scope first. In many cases, the bid for one item depends on whether the supplier knows that they will get other items. They may have joint cost in the production of certain things, so it's not that this supplier will give us lower costs if we get more of the certain items. This is simply based on economies of scope, and suppliers, as we saw before, can give us some volume discount. This is not volume discount. This is getting discount or getting low price on both items if the supplier gets to supply both. It can be 2, 3, or 100 items, but they are related somehow, and the cost to produce them are related. So the supplier may get, for example, to sell two types of cereal that are made together or a navigation system and cruise control that can be made in one system. And in that case, the supplier will give us a better price because its costs are lower. So these are not false economics. This is not pressing the supplier or anything like this. This is the supplier costs are lower because the production cost depend on doing these two items together. It is particularly evident in trucking transportation when you think about truckloads. Truckloads is taking full loads from origin to destination. Here the transportation product is lane, origin destination. This is what we've talked about throughout this lecture. So the cost are of two types. There's direct cost and connection cost for the truckers, for the transportation carrier. The direct costs are the costs that are tied to the distance going from A to B. Its the drivers' salaries, it's the gas, it's the tire wear, all the cost that are directly tied to the movement. Connection costs are different. The connection costs are the cost of what happens at the destination. For example, does the driver have to wait there for three days until he get the next load? Does the truck have to move empty out of there, which costs money and nobody pays? So these are some of the connection costs. The connection costs create lane cost dependency or economies of scope. Because if I just bid on A to B not knowing what's going to happen in B, is different than if I get an A to B knowing that you also give me B to A or B to C. Because now I know the truck doesn't have to wait there, I don't have to go empty, and I can give you a better price because it costs the trucker or less, so the trucker can give a better price. So the problem is that the standard auction process or the standard procurement process for transportation is that the shippers, the auctioneers, evaluate each lane bid by itself, which means the carrier are bidding on hundreds or thousands or tens of thousands of lane. The shipper, which is the auctioneer, may look at all the bids from Boston to Detroit and choose the minimum subject to some constraints or the combination of the best service and best price. But to simplify this, let's not talk only about price. So basically the shipper ranks all the bids on a particular lane and chooses the best one or the least cost one. It doesn't work for the carriers because the carriers are trying to build a network. They need to get the equipment back home. They need to keep moving. So there's a disconnect here that we'll explain further. So the current practice in transportation, in most cases, it starts with information exchange. The shippers gives aggregated volume estimate by lane, by origin, region, system, based on last year and some forecast of what will happen last year and ask the carrier to bid on this. The carrier submit lane rate, which sometimes a per mile rate or per move between A to B, a charge that much or between A to B, a charge so much per mile, same idea. And then what happened? There's assign mechanism. It's what I mentioned before, lane-by-lane analysis. For each lane, the low bids win. It's basically done through a spreadsheet. So let's continue with an example that we use throughout this lesson. So this is the simple network with four lanes, A to B. We call A to B, B to C, C to A, and C to B, and C to A. And these are the bids of the carriers. That's actually the same table that we had before. And you look at this and it's clear that the carrier 1 will meet A to B, C to A, and C to B, and carrier 2 will win B to C. So this will be the winning bids, and if we look back on who is winning what, carrier 1 is winning A to B, B to C, and C to A. Carrier 2 winning B to C. That's a problem because there are two very good trips here. One trip is if one carrier can win A to B, B to C, and C to A, it can get the equipment back to maintenance, it can get the driver back home, or if a carrier win, B to C and C to A. In this situation, none of the carriers won this good tour, this good type of business. That's the disconnect between the carrier and the shipper here. To solve this, what we use is what's called combinatorial bid. And with combinatorial bid, the following takes place. We let each carrier bid not only on each lane separately, but on combinations. So in this particular network, possible package includes the following. The first one is bids on each lane separately. Package number 1 is A to B. Package number 2 is B to C. We call it the package just to keep the nomenclature. But we also let carriers bid on the combination of lanes. So carrier can say, I can give you a good price if you give me A to B and B to C and even better price if you give me A to B, B to C, and C to A. I can give you a good price B to C. So now we get lots of bids for all these combinations. Now, the problem is the complexity. The complexity is that there's a large number of bids. Each carrier, let's say we have several 100 lanes or 7,000 lanes. Instead of submitting just number of bids similar to the number of lanes or smaller than the number of lanes, it's submit that plus many of the combinations. So we can have million bids submitted by each carrier. Then we have also overlapping bid. What does it mean overlapping bid? Let me give you an example. Let's say we have a lane going from A to B. So one carrier bids A to B, the same carrier bids A, let's say C to A to B. Another carrier bids going to A going to B going to somewhere else coming back. That's just one carrier. There's another carrier submit I'm going from this point to here and here and there and then coming back. So which carrier gets what? There are so many overlapping bids, it gets really, really difficult. And the large number, of course, doesn't simplify anything. So how do we deal with it? Turns out there are certain mathematical structures that are very good for dealing with this. So let's arrange, let's show how it is done in a spreadsheet. In actuality, it's not done in spreadsheet. It's done in special software, but for this particular example, it can be done with a spreadsheet. So let's arrange all the bids in a table. How do we arrange it? So this is the package number here. These are the lane. And a 1 here says that this carrier is bidding on this lane. So package 1 includes a bid on A to B, and the price is $500. Package 5 include a bid on A to B and B to C, and the price is $975. You see the $975 is less than bidding separately for A to B and B to C because if carrier 1 is bidding separately for A to B and B to C, he does not know if he'll get both of them. But if he bids on a combination, he can provide a better price because he knows that he'll get both of them. By the same token, you see, bid number 8 includes B to C and C to B. This is the round robin, B to C and C to B. And bid number 9 is A to B, B to C, and C to A. This is a tour that goes back to the origin. And unlike bidding these three separately, which cost $1,500, the carrier, in this example, is bidding $1,325, so they're bidding less. Same thing. Carrier 2 is also, there's a 1. If there's a bid, the price is here at the bottom and we have the same number of bids. Add to this now the number of loads assigned to a particular package. So this is the variable that we have, the number of loads assigned to a particular package, and this is the cost data on the lanes. So what we have here is, if this 1, this means that there's a bid here. This is the number of loads. It's coming through here, and this is 10 times $500 will be the $5,000 here. So we have here the bid of this particular. So if carrier 1 gets package 1, they'll get 10 loads on this number of loads. If it will be 10 at a cost of $500 each, their bid is $5,000. So let's see how each one of these works. So just repeating what we said. So there's a 1 in the table, in the cell, in this case in package 5. So if A to B is included in package 5, there's a 1 here and 0 otherwise or nothing. The cost of package 5 by carrier 1 is $975. In addition, the number of loads assigned to carrier 1, package 5 is here. This is the variable that will change as part of the permutation, but we start with less then number of 10 as a starting condition. This is the loads that carrier 1 carries from A to B, and this is the total cost of assigning 10 loads to package 1 of carrier 1. Here we have actually the objective function. This is total cost. It's the sum of all the cost along here, along the bottom row. And of course, this is the sum of the loads. We have to have this column equal to this column. So we have to have at least 10. The constraint here is least 10 on every one of these lanes, just like before. So now we get to the optimization itself. So in the optimization, we are trying, this is the objective function. So this is the C11 times C5. So this is C5 times C11. It's simply the number of loads that carrier 1 is getting under package 1. This is the number of loads that carrier 1 is getting under package 7. This is the cost, the amount of money that carrier 1 is getting under package 1 if package 1 is assigned to it, and this is the sum which is the total cost which we are trying to minimize. And this, of course, again, is the constraint that having 10, we want to have 10 in each row. Now, we get to the optimization. So we optimize-- U19 is exactly here. And we want to change the C11 to T11 are here. Everything here is integer, and you see here that we contend here that U15, U18, which is this, is equal to this. So now we optimize this. You see this is just what I said. And these numbers are these numbers here are the decision variables, and we impose the constraint that we have 10 in each row. So now we look at a solution. We optimize it. We solve this, minimize this. And this is not easy to do by inspection. You can do it, but it's not as easy. You see that this is the solution. We see that carrier 1, the round robin here, was carrying A to B, B to C, and C to A. A to B, B to C, C to A. In carrier 2 and also carrier 1 was getting this one. So carrier 1 was getting everything. But most importantly it got its round robin that it really wanted. Now, this is the solution. This is what carrier 1 is getting.
