Let's get started with the simplest network flow model transportation problem. So let me introduce the problem we're going to work with, SandyCo. So here's the problem background. SandyCo is two facilities. These plants mine, clean, and sort sand for use in cement, children's play boxes, small beaches, whatever. They distribute this sand from their two plants to three different customer regions, where it is packaged and sold. So each plant has a specific maximum weekly supply of available sand, each region has an expected minimum weekly required demand, and the cost to distribute a ton of sand differs between each plant and each region pairing due to the distance and other factors. Very simple problem, and the objective is how much sand should SandyCo ship from each plant to each region each week to meet the demand at the lowest planned distribution cost? It's pretty straightforward. So how do I start this? I always like to draw a picture. And being in the United States, Western culture, I always go left to right. Don't know why, but I would have raw materials come in on the left, finish up at the right. So I'm starting with two plants, Plant 1 and Plant 2, and I've got three customer regions named Region 1, 2, and 3. Now, connecting these are my arcs, and these are the connections from each plant to each region. And so the objective here is to minimize the flow, so I need some notation, so let's get those out there. I've got these plants, I's, and the regions or J's, so my flow is going to be in IJ, from I to J. So these indices are simply subscripts I'm going to use to keep track of things because things will be a little complicated as we introduce more complexity to the model. So I always have some input data. I have available supply of sand from Plant I. I'm going to call that SI, and so this is S1. I have a certain amount of sand available there. S2 here, and I have a certain demand at each region. So I'm going to have a D1, a D2, a D3, and I need to make sure that I don't exceed the supply coming out of each plant and that I meet the minimum, at least, required demand at each customer region. Now, let me give you some notation, make sure we understand. S_I equals available supply of sand from Plant I in tons-- it's always good to give the units-- and this sign means for all I's in the set S, and the set S is essentially, I'm going to circle them, all my supply nodes. D_j, demand for sand in region J in tons-- good to give the units-- for all J's in the set D, and these are my demand nodes. And now I have this other input data that I need, the cost for sending sand from Plant I to region J. And this is dollars per ton, and so it's just a straight variable cost. And it's for all I's and J's, so that's the cost. So C11, C11 is the cost of sending material from Plant 1 to Region 1. Pretty straightforward. So my decision variable is this x_i,j-- how much am I going to flow on each one of these arcs? And so to solve this, I'm going to need some input data. So we'll talk about what the pros and cons and how you get this data, but let's assume we have it right now. So I know my supply at Plant 1 is 100 units or 10 tons. Plant 2 has a slightly bigger capacity, 125. My demands for 1 are 25 and it's 95 tons and 80 tons, and I said this is tons per week. And then I have my costs. Costs for moving from Plant I to Region 1 is a $250 per ton. From 2 to 3 is $460 per ton. So you have all the information you need here. So let's think about what are we trying to do? I'm going to try to minimize all the flows because this is the only thing I'm deciding, this x_i,j. Everything else is given to me. It's input data. I want to find each of the x_i,j's to minimize the total cost. What's the total cost going to be? Well, it's simply going to be the sum of C11 times x11 plus C12 times x12, C13 times x13, and so forth, the sum of all those. The flow going from each point to each region times the cost of each one, I'm going to sum those all up. But I can't just find any solution because if I'm going to minimize that and I try to solve that, the minimum cost flow would be zero, so I have to make sure that I meet all my demand and I have to make sure that I don't exceed my supply. So how do we do that? Well, this is what math programming allows us to do. It's a formal structure to solve this problem. So let me just step back and explain math programming, the formulation. So the objective of any math program is to find an extreme solution. Extreme solutions are minimums or maximums, so you're going to either minimize or maximize this function subject to meeting some constraints. The variable, the decision variables, almost always x's-- x's, y's, or z's. It's just common nomenclature. So this is what a math program looks like. So let me talk you through it. The first line is what's known as the objective function. I want to minimize this function f_x and remember, a function is just an equation. And that the value of that equation is z given the different x's that I use, so my objective function is the thing, the equation I'm trying to minimize or maximize. In this case, I'm minimizing. The decision variables have to be in the objective function because if they're not, then why are they decision variables? These are the things you're trying to decide. In our network flow model, it's the x_i,j's at this time. So these are the variables I'm trying to decide, and so I'm trying to minimize this function, and we'll describe what that looks like, subject to constraints. And so this g_x, which is another function with x's in it because I have to have those decision variables in some of my constraints because if not, it's unconstrained and it won't be the answer that you think it would be. So that g_x has to be greater than or equal to whatever, some b. Now, when we talk about constraints, what's typically done, you talk about a left-hand side and a right-hand side, and it's the left and right of the relationship. In this case, I'm minimizing something, so I want to make sure some function is greater than some minimum value, and I'll explain these and show the example in a second. But these constraints always take the same form. Your right-hand side is always input data. All your variables, put them on the left-hand side. It just makes life a little easier as you go forward and set these up. And then you have this last set of their constraints, but they're special-- non-negativity conditions. Decision variables typically cannot be negative. Yeah, there might be special cases, but in nothing that we do will you have negative flow. So this is a standard form. You'll see this over and over again, but it can take different flavors, and it really depends on the type of functions for the objective function and the constraints. If they're all linear, which means they're additive, C11 times x11 plus C11 times x12. So if they're additive in that way, then they're linear, and we're going to spend a lot of time on linear programs. Now, if they multiply-- say x1 times x2, so two decision variables are multiplied-- we are now non-linear, or if one of the terms is squared. We're going to stay away from those for awhile. But there's another case called integer programs where the x can't be any continuous variable, it can only be integers. And there's a special case called the binary integer program where the variables can only be 0 or 1, and we'll deal with those a little later. If you have a program that uses both linear programming with continuous variables, like the flow-- x can be whatever, 1 to 100, it's a continuous variable-- but you also have some integer variables, then it's known as MILP-- a mixed integer linear program. We're going to spend a lot of time on MILPs. So this is the form. Let's talk about SandyCo. Let's formulate it. Here's my little picture. You see I've got my two plants, I've got my three regions, I've got all the same nomenclature. I've defined all the terms. Here's my math program. It looks very compact. That's why we love these, because I can solve any transportation problem with this formulation. I don't care what the data is. But let me just spread it out and explain what this means. So let's start with the objective function. So the objective function, the z-- I'm minimizing this function, and all that these summations mean, let we read what this equation means or what it says. z is equal to the summation of all I's and for all J's for c_i,j times x_i,j. So what does this mean? I'm going to look at this. This is the internal, and I'm going to say, OK, for every I-- let's say I is 1-- I'm going to look for all the different J's-- so 11 times x11 plus C12 times x12 plus c13 times x13, and that's what all these are saying. So this is when I equals 1. Then I want to flip this one up and it's going to go to I is 2, and I do the same thing. So all I'm doing is summing up all the different arcs, the cost times the flow. So if there's no flow on it, it incurs no cost. So that's the objective function. Now I've got two sets of constraints. So this is, again, I'm minimizing this function subject to the first constraint is simply a supply constraint. I want to make sure that everything coming out of each I, each plant, is less than my supply there, less than or equal to. So what this is saying x11 plus x12 plus x13 is simply all of these arcs. I'm saying the sum of those, everything coming out, has to be less than whatever my S1 is. I can't ship more sand out of a plant than I say is available, and I do the same thing for S2. So this one constraint might have more equations. In fact, how many equations will it have? Well, it's going to be for every I within the set S. How many I's do I have in S? Two, two plants, so I know there'll be two equations. So that's the supply constraint. Let's move down. This next one is the demand constraint. I want to make sure that all the flows coming into a certain J have to exceed or be equal to the demand at each one of those, so what is this going to look like? It's simply going to be summing for everything coming into each of the regions, x11 plus x21, has to be greater than or equal to D1. That's a saying that whatever comes in, it better be enough to meet the demand that I've requested. And you have the same thing for D2 and for D3 because I know there's three of these equations because this is going to be for every J, every destination, in this set D. How many destinations or regions so I have? Three, so know I need three equations there and two equations there. So hopefully you're getting a flavor for what this is doing, and then the last set of constraints I have are those non-negativities. And all this is saying that each one of them has to be greater than or equal to zero. Now, you might say, well, why are you making this so wide? Why are you filling up all this space? Well, I want to demonstrate something to you. You see how this variable x11, it's in the objective function and it's also in the constraints? You need to make sure that they link up because the objective function is subject to meeting all these constraints. So the beautiful thing about math programming is once you set up these equations, we can figure out how to solve it and it'll make those trade-offs for you. And so it'll find the best solution, the min cost solution, subject to meeting the supply constraints, the demand constraints, and the non-negativity constraints. So what does this look like in a spreadsheet, because that's how we're going to solve them, remember? OK, here is that exact same formulation in the spreadsheet. I'm going to go back. Here's all the models, so let me just clean this up a little bit. Get rid of my x1 there. You see I have two supply constraints, I have three demand constraints, and I've got one, two, three, four, five, six non-negativity constraints, and I've got my objective function in the spreadsheet. I've got my objective function up here in cell B3, and then I've got my two supply constraints and I've got my three demand constraints. I'll explain the non-negativities in a second. So let's talk through what I got here. This is my objective function. It's a sum product. You should know this function. It's C5, which all of my decision variables are in the row from C5 to H5, times everything that's in C6 to H6, which are just the c_i,j's. So this are the x_i,j's, and this row are the c_i,j's. So some product-- it's just multiplying. Now I've said this isn't the solution. I'm saying what is the cost if I put a 1 in each of the decision variables? So what I'm doing here, I'm forcing the solution. I'm saying, what would the cost be if I ship everything from everywhere? So that's what's showing in this spreadsheet right now. Now, here on the constraints for my supply constraints, for each of my left-hand sides, I've got this left-hand side, which is just the sum product of, again, the decision variables that are in row 5, C5 to H5, multiplied by what I've got in my row right here. So this is going to be equal to what I'm flowing in x11 times this variable 1 plus this times this plus this times this. So essentially, this is saying that everything coming out of Plant 1 can't exceed 100. That's my right-hand side, and you have the same thing for Plant 2. For the demand constraints, you have the exact same thing. That's the beauty here. This whole problem is being solved with two sum products, one here and then one in each of these left-hand sides of the constraints. And so here, I'm saying that for this model in row 15, cell I, this is equal to the sum product of what I have in my constraints, which is a 1 in E15 and a 1 in H15, times what I have in my decision variables. So it's going to add in what I'm shipping 1 to 3, and what I'm shipping from 2 to 3-- in other words, anything going into Region 3-- and that has to exceed 80. So this is one formulation. This is kind of an expanse of formulation. There's other ways you could do this to represent it that would both be correct. So here's an alternative model and spreadsheet, and you see I still have my objective function in cell C2 this time, and it's just the sum product of C5 to E6, which is just this. I always make my decision variables and those things yellow. You can do your own nomenclature, but it just makes it easier for me to see, and I'm going to multiply that by the costs. So this is a little more compact, and then I have all my other constraints are down here. Supply constraints, these are just sums for each of the supplies. So this one is summing across, this one is something across here, and then my constraints down here for demand, I'm summing simply the columns. And so for Region 1, I'm summing these. For Region 2, I'm summing these. Region 3, I'm summing these. So you see it's a very compact form. So if I have a really large problem, you might want to see it this way. I personally always prefer the larger, more spread out one because you see the matrices, and we'll talk more about this as we go on. But I could even make it more compact, and this is the exact same thing, and these spreadsheets are in the resources so you can play with them. They solve the exact same problem. However, they have different pros and cons. These two formulations, formulation two and three, are much more compact, but they're solving the same problem. It's just you have to look a little deeper and say, OK, what is this number? How does it tie together compared to that first formulation I showed you, where everything is right out there? You can look at it and immediately see what the model is saying. So next, we're going to go in and solve the model, but let's stop here.
