Hi, everybody. In this lesson, we will learn several aspects of procurement. Companies buy many things and not all of them should be treated the same way. So the first basic issue is how to segment the procurement and how to treat each segment. This can be based on supply relationship, the use of digital technology, inventory policy. All of these things should be aligned with the appropriate type of procurement. We will also spend some time on the sourcing process itself, what is included, and the many detail what you should pay attention to. We will mention some element of sourcing capital goods as well, because they involve long-term decision. And we also explain many of the considerations involved in outsourcing. Many of the things a company buys involves price volatility, not only oil and other energy products but many other commodities and services. We will learn how to deal with such volatility through financial hedging, operational hedging, and even surcharges. Finally, we will touch on procurement social responsibility. The carbon footprint of many companies is mainly in their supply chain and their suppliers Furthermore, this is where many social responsibility issues raise their ugly heads. We will discuss methods used by companies to protect themselves and develop responsible suppliers. The first segment, however, is about procurement and the importance of procurement. So in terms of outline, it includes all the things we talked about. Why worry about procurement? This is the first segment, and then we talk about the rest. Let's consider first the famous Ford River Rouge plant in the early last century. Ford made car [INAUDIBLE], but it owns all the means of production. It was totally vertically integrated. So Ford owned the mines that brought the iron ore to make the steel. Ford owned the forest from which it was taking, getting the wood to make the car. There are a lot of wood content in car. So it owns also the means of transportation. It owns the railroad that brought the stuff into the plant. It owned the plant. It owned the distribution channel. It was totally vertically integrated. So as stuff was coming into the plant, the famous Model T cars were coming out of the plant. You could get them in any color you wanted as long as it was black. So over time, following the River Rouge Plant as it said in the early 19th century, the importance of purchasing grew. The reason is, if you look at the distribution of types of money in a corporation and you look at how much is bought, how much has been bought, and how much was spent internally, you could see that over time the amount spent on material and services grew, and the amount spent on wages, salaries and overhead inside the corporation actually went down. You can think about one of the reasons for this is that there's a lot of leverage in procurement. So strategic sourcing can have a real impact on the financial performance and shareholder value of a company. Let me give you an example. So let's look at the revenue, the income statement of a company. So there's revenue. In this case, it's a million dollars. They spend on material and services that they buy from the outside 390 million, labor and overhead, which is spent internally as 275. There's a gross margin. There are fixed operating expense. So the net income pretax is $135 million. Now let's assume that you can have a 5% improvement in material and services. If you look at the all the calculation done, this brings you a 14% improvement in net income. So this is a big leverage here. And if you can produce the material and services procured by 10%, then you'll get almost 30% improvement in the net income. If you can reduce it by 15%, you'll get almost 50% improvement in net income. This is the reason that Fortune, in a famous article in 1995, wrote, when the goal is boosting profit by dramatically lowering cost, a business should look first at what it buys. Now one should also realize when in procurement that the price that the supplier is bidding on is not everything. There are lots of other elements in procurement, for example, delivery conditions, where there are delays in delivery, defects, what's the quality of the item supplied? Is are there any handling cost? Are there any inspection cost? Is there training required? What kind of service is the bidder providing? Are there any CSR risks? Is the bidder somebody that we don't know and likely to have some problem with, say, child labor that will reflect bad on us. Is to be bidder financially stable? We don't want somebody to get out of business midway through the contract. All these actually can be converted to cost and then increase the cost. So it's not only the price. You have to look at other elements of the deal. So let's stop here. Now we understand what procurement is about and go to the next section.
