LAURA ALLEGUE LARA: Congratulations, everyone. You made it to part 5 of the Blink problem recitation and optimization using spreadsheets. I'm very proud of this team going through the recitation. So keep it up-- and mostly because we're going to solve one part of this problem that incorporates a few elements that are considered a pain point for those that work with optimization problems in spreadsheets. I promise it's easier than it seems. It's just a matter of practice and of understanding your model and how to formulate it. So I'm sure this is not going to be a pain point for you in the future. And I'm also sure you're going to be super successful when you go through graded assignments and exam questions if you went through all this recitation step by step. To finish in the same way we started, if you still haven't read Blink problem part 5, pause this video, read through it, understand the new elements of the model, probably go and try to solve question 1 by yourself, and return to us in a few minutes so that we work on the rest of this problem together. After going through the problem statement, you probably noticed what I was talking about. We are now going to incorporate not only DC2, but also fixed costs, which is probably what I was talking about in terms of pain points. As expected, we are provided with fixed cost for each one of the DCs and with the new distance, inbound and outbound. And we'll also confirm that the costs per unit per mile for inbound and outbound shipments is remaining the same we had in the previous part. Another piece of information that I think it's very relevant to our analysis is that we now have to minimize a total cost. This is no longer a transportation cost. So now we need to consider inbound and outbound transportation cost, but also the fixed cost. So this is why we have this note on fixed plus variable costs. So one last time in this recitation, let's go together through the elements. We still have the objective function and demand and supply constraint. Remember, we incorporated conservation of flow as soon as we had the DCs. And we always had this non-negativity constraint active. But now, finally, we're going to use binary variables in linking constraint because we're going to work on activating or deactivating the nodes-- so the DCs. And this is going to consider whether we want to include that fixed cost or not in our calculation to get the optimal total cost. I'll submit. And of course, click the Show Answer button if you want to see the model formulation. And let's go together to confirm that we're minimizing total cost in question 2 and that we still need two decimal places. So just keep that in mind whenever you're working on your answers. Now, go up to see what are my new data points that I need to bring to my spreadsheet so that we continue working together on that. Start by duplicating my part 4 for the last time in this problem. And I will rename it as part 5. You'll know that by now. And I'm also bring in all the new pieces of information. So I will add here D1 and DC2 Fixed Cost. This is provided data. So I'll make it gray. And we're also provided with the distances. So I'm going to add that to the existing matrix. So I'll rename DC1, DC1. And our DC2 is going to be much closer. And I'm also doing the same for the Outbound section, which is going to be here. And this is including a little bit of further away distance. That's all the new information we have. We are also told that our total cost now is different. So I'm going to show you how we adjust our model to include this. To have my objective function up above the model, I'm going to add a few rows here. Now my total cost will be the new objective function. And this is including both fixed and variable costs. So this is going to be my fixed cost. Total cost will sum both of this. And I will adjust the color coding. I promise the color coding is super helpful for debugging and for setting the solver. So if you get used to it, it won't take you any more time. And it will save you a lot of effort in the future. Let's see what else do we need to adjust. We now have been provided with new distances. So definitely, we need to adjust our variables. This is because, as you know, we're going to have units flowing to another DC. And we're not including that here. So I'm just adding some more space. I will rename this to DC1. And I will add DC2 as new variables. We can just delete that and make it yellow. Same here, the units flowing outbound-- and now we have to adjust all calculated fields before we move on into calculating any fixed cost or adding any new variables or constraints. As you can see here, I have the total units flowing to each one of the regions. And it's never too late to add a new title. So I'll name it "Flowing to regions." And I only had it for DC1. So I'm going to change this to the sum of both DCs because I can ship units from any of the DCs now. So now that's all adjust. I also need to adjust the units flowing out of the assembly plants because they can go now to two different DCs. So this is going to be helpful here, just to sum those up. Last but not least, do not forget about your initial cost calculation. Remember that we only had inbound cost flowing from assembly plants to a single DC and out of a single DC. Now we have two of them. So it's important that we double-check everything is correctly calculated. Having all calculated fields in different colors help us identify them faster and be sure we go through all of them. So inbound total cost-- we still have the same cost per unit per mile. But now we need to consider a larger array that includes both DCs-- and same for the outbound cost because we now need to consider both DC, both in the variables and in the miles. So now we are sure we're multiplying any unit's flow from each one of the DCs and to each one of the regions with the outbound cost per unit per mile. We're getting closer to it. So now we have fixed cost. How should we calculate the fixed cost that we're including in our total cost equation here? So to calculate it, we're going to use binary variables. Remember, we talked about it on the elements in question 1. And this is going to tell us if the DC is open. If 1, it means the DC is open. If 0, it means the DC is closed. We have not restricted the number of DCs it can use. So it can probably use just one of any of both or both of them at the same time. So it will definitely depend on whether the model defines it can comply with all the constraints with using just one, with using the two of them, or how should it activate or not any of the variables. So let's incorporate that as variables into our model and include it in our total cost function. To do so, I will just use sumproduct, which is saving us a lot of time. And I'm just saying multiply the fixed cost from each one of the DCs times the fact that it's open or not represented on a binary variable. And closing this, I will click Enter. You can see it's already there. It's also linked to my total cost already. And to see if it works, as we did-- and this is only in terms of the math. As you know, we're not talking about optimized result. But I want to see if I correctly set my objective function and related ones. I will write 1 here. And I need to see if it actually changed my cost. And it worked. So that means in terms of math, if I add elements to my model, if the model uses any variables, everything should be working. I will add one unit here to test my new DC. So I should now have inbound, outbound, and fixed cost. And everything should come to my total cost equation. Everything seems to be working well. And we already have our binary variable. So now it's time to set our linking constraint. You probably already noticed that unless we force our model to comply a constraint, it will prefer not to spend that cost. So as is now, as we didn't link the fact of opening or closing the DC to the units flowing to each one of the DCs, the model, if we run it as is, will definitely say, I don't want to open any DC in terms of fixed cost. However, it will not be compliant what it's actually needed in the problem statement-- that is, that if any units flow, which is actually going to happen, it should flow considering the fixed cost of the DC it's flowing through. So let's build our linking constraint so that we link this binary variable to the actual total cost equation through the units flowing. I will write down here that this is our linking constraint. And if you don't recall how to build your linking constraint, I encourage you to go back to the lesson and go through the slides to clearly have that handy whenever you're working on linking constraints. But to us, it's going to be the flow of units on a certain DC minus a binary variable times a large enough number. So let's define our large enough number. For our optimization models, the best approach is to have M as the sum of all the demand. So I'm going to write here M. And I'm going to calculate it as the sum of the demand. So that's my new M. M being the sum of demands works because you will see how it performs whenever we create a linking constraint and activate or deactivate a node. The first element we're going to consider when building our linking constraint is the flow from that DC we want to open or not. So the flow of units here-- I can probably sum them here, even though we already calculated it for in and out. And we also need to adjust that. So don't let me forget. So units flowing are here from each one of the DCs. And I'm going to do the units flowing on this DC1 minus the binary variable we assign to DC1 times a large enough number. I'm going to fix that number so that I can just copy my formula later. Then I will copy this here for DC2. And we can double-check that it's considering the units flowing from DC2, the binary variable of DC2, and also the large enough number, which hasn't moved because I fixed that into my formula. We're all set on that. So my linking constraints are all set. These are calculated fields. And as you will see if you go back to the lesson, linking constraint should be lower or equal to 0. So this is something to keep in mind when we build our solver settings. Just a heads-up if you haven't noticed-- probably you did notice-- we are missing to incorporate the DC2 conservation of flow constraint. So this is for DC1. As you know, remember that all units flowing from DC1 should be equal to all units flowing out of DC1. So now we need to add the same for DC2 so that whenever we come to the solver settings and we're almost there, we have them all ready. So I'm just going to sum all units flowing to DC2 and all units flowing out of DC2. And we should be now all set considering we have all elements we need. Let's go back together. We adjusted our total cost. This is our new objective function. It's now including fixed and transportation cost. Our fixed costs are considering a binary variable that mentions whether we open or not our DC. The total transportation cost-- it's now including our inbound with assembly plants flowing to two DCs instead of one and flowing out of DCs to the regions also. We're including the new conservation of flow constraint for the new DC. And we are also considering the linking constraint using the binary variables and the flows and the M as a large enough number. The cost has not changed per unit per mile. So that remains. And also, the demand corresponding to each region-- so I think we're good to go. I'll go to Data, Solver, and I need to adjust my objective function. Now you know it's D2 again. I'm minimizing. I need to double-check my variables. Remember that in the past, we only had one DC. And we didn't have binary variables. So I'm going to just delete these and start over. That's a new array right here for the inbound, another array for the outbound. I will remember to use comma between each array. On the third one is going to be the binary variables. Let's now check our constraints. So the first ones are the non-negativity ones. So let's adjust them as needed. You can see the first one was only considering one DC. I'm now considering both. Both of them have to comply with this non-negativity constraint. And I'm doing the same with the second constraint, which was about the outbound flow now also to include DC2. And the demand constraint has not changed. And you remembered that. Let's just double-check if it's marking the right cell. So actually, it's correct. Everything flowing to regions here should be larger or equal than the demand, which is highlighted here. That's correct. The next constraint is related to the conservation of flow. We were just saying that everything in DC1 should be going out. We're now using it for both. So I'm saying that everything flowing into both DCs should be the same that it's flowing out from both DCs. The last one we have here is the capacity constraint. We just double-check it's working well so any units flowing out of the assembly plant should be lower or equal than the capacity we have. So that's perfect. That doesn't need any changes. I'll click OK. And let's think about the new constraints. So we already added the new binary variables. We need to add the constraints saying that anything that goes here needs to be binary. So it's only allowed for 1 or 0, as we talked. And then I will add another constraint, which is related to the linking one, that says that the result of this linking constraint should be lower or equal to 0. And I will show you in a minute how does that work. But I will just click OK. And I would say we're ready to go in terms of solving the model. We actually found a solution. Solver actually found a solution where all constraints and optimality conditions are satisfied, which is great. And now you've got your answer in the total cost here. This is what we need to input in our question 2 of part 5 of the Blink problem in this recitation. But before we go, please double-check how the linking constraint works. If we happen to have units flowing in DC2 and this is not set to 1, the linking strain will become positive. And if you analyze the elements we're multiplying that we're considering flows and the total of the demand, this is how it will work. It will never be negative if this is 0. So I'll make it 1. And you can see it is actually working because DC2 is the only one open. So congratulations. After submitting the total cost as the answer of this part of the problem, you're all set and good to go. Hopefully, you have a clearer understanding on the different elements of a model, its formulation, and also, you have a better understanding on those small things that probably were pain points in the past. In the next tab, you'll find our takeaways and those small hints and tips that I provided summarized in just one slide. And I know if you keep everything we've talked about in mind whenever you go through graded assignments or exam problems, you'll definitely succeed on those. So keep it up, and see you in the next recitation. Good luck.
