Hi. Welcome to the supply chain finance module. In this segment, we're going to be focused on accounting concepts. Accounting concepts are the basic set of concepts to provide guidance to the accountant in carrying out his or her duties recording the transactions of the business. The comings and goings of the cash and the materials in and out of the firm. Keep in mind that although accounts are dealing with discrete numbers, the process of recording a transaction is not always an exact science. There are choices that the accountant must make, with guidance from management, when recording a transaction. The big choices include whether to categorized an expenditure as a period expense or as an investment and capital asset, how the firm allocates overhead in their costing system, and the relative conservative or aggressive choices when recording inventory. There are a number of different basic accounting concepts. We'll go through 10 of the primary concepts right now. These are not all the core concepts. Most of the relevant ones. We're going to go in some greater depth for some more so than others, because some of them are more meaningful and more important to the supply chain than some of the other concepts. The dual aspect concept is also known as a duality principle. This refers to the basic convention in accounting where total assets always equals total liabilities, where liabilities includes short-term liabilities or shown here as current liabilities, long-term liabilities, and equity. So there are different components within liabilities. So when we see a balance sheet with the assets on one side, and the liabilities on the other, the bottom line-- total assets and total liabilities are always going to equal each other. Now, you may have heard about the double entry accounting system, and that refers to the recording process that requires two entries for each transaction, which ultimately helps keep the assets equal due to liabilities. The accounting period concept merely states that the usual time frame for accounting analysis is a one-year time frame. Therefore an income statement reports the income generating capabilities of the firm for a one-year period. That being said, all businesses will conduct analyzes on the business performance in smaller increments of time-- quarterly, monthly, weekly, and even daily in some cases. The conservatism concept suggests that the accountant should adopt a conservative position when faced with a choice in recording a transaction. For example, the accountant should recognize transactions that may decrease equity when they are reasonably possible, and recognize transactions that may result in increases in equity only when they are reasonably certain. Let's take an example. If a food company has $100 million in finished goods inventory that is held beyond the expiration date, the value of the inventory would certainly come under question. It's highly likely that that inventory suffered a permanent loss of value, and the only marketable use may be for animal feed. That market value would likely be much lower than the cost of materials on the books, which is $100 million. So the firm should choose the lower of cost or market and revalue the inventory down to the market value of the inventory. That would be a conservative approach. Now, keep in mind that organizations should not be revaluing their inventory frequently. This should only occur with dramatic reductions in the evaluation, and it should be done rarely. Otherwise the investors will start to question the accuracy of the financial reports if the organization keeps changing the evaluation method or the evaluation of their different assets. One more example may help. Let's say a supplier submitted a quote to a customer, and the customer called back to say that their bid was very appealing, and that they will likely make the purchase. Should they record that as a sale? No. As encouraging as that call would be, the supplier should not record that as a sale, not until they receive a firm order, preferably in writing, from the customer. The accrual concept suggests that the accountant should record transactions when there is a relevant event, but not necessarily when cash is exchanged. This simple example here illustrates this. If a company sells $2,500 in furniture for custom furniture and receives a balance in full at the time of the custom order-- let's say on April 1-- but the company ships a product on June 15, well, there are two different ways to record that transaction. If we use the accrual method, the accountant will record June 15 as the date of the sale, because that's when the furniture was shipped to the customer. Whereas using the cash method the accountant would record April 1 as the date of the sale. Keep in mind that in almost all cases, the accrual method is used only in rare cases as a cash method used for-- and that's typically by smaller firms. The rest of the concepts I'll share are straightforward and warrant a brief explanation. The cost concept means that in transactions, the accountant will record the cost basis, meaning that the accountant will not consider the market value of an asset. This prevents manipulation of the asset value that could occur if the accountant chose to use a subjective market value. For supply chain professionals, we should recognize that inventories are recorded on a cost basis, not what the market value is, meaning that the value of inventory on hand could be higher or it could be lower, depending on changes in the marketplace for those particular materials. The materiality concept means that the accountant should record all transactions that have the potential for impact on the business, but should ignore those that are trivial in nature. For example, if an organization purchases office products-- let's just say USB flash drives-- for $200, these should be treated as period expenses, even if the flash drives are going to provide value to the firm for more than the one-year accounting period. Yes, one could record the flash drives as an asset, because they're going to be providing value for more than a year, but the cost of keeping track of the flash drives in the accounting system and then the potential impact of this on a financial report-- that's really negligible. So this purchase really should be treated as an expense to the firm. Basically, they accountant should not invest resources in tracking immaterial items that will not impact the financial reports either way. The consistency concept states that the accountant should be consistent using the same method for recording transactions. For example, an organization should not be using LIFO inventory valuation method for one kind of inventory asset and a FIFO inventory valuation method for another. These are different Inventory valuation methods that could result in very different measures reported for the very same material. The entity concept is among the most simple. It means that the accounting is performed for an entity and not for individuals. Obviously, some of the same principles may apply for one's personal financial management, but the accounting reports that we're discussing are for our purposes are focused on the business entity. The matching concept indicates that when costs are incurred, they're associated or matched with the revenues that are associated with them, and then they are treated as expenses in the same period of revenue received. So if a company spends money in June on materials that are used in a product that is sold in October, those costs would be matched with the revenues and recorded as expenses in October. Put another way, when an organization purchases raw materials to produce a product, all those costs are accumulated in the inventory valuation of a particular item and only recognized as an expense in the period when the product is sold. Lastly, the money measurement concept suggests that money is the common measure. The accountant will record only items that are expressed in monetary terms. It seems simple, but we will often find cases where organizations want to quantify things like market share, or competitive advantage, or innovation. All important to a business, but they are not measurable in monetary terms, and for purposes of financial reporting, they are not, therefore, recorded. As suggested, all these principles provide the underpinning for some of the fundamental choices that the accountant has to make regarding product costing, depreciation method, and asset expense. These choices will be addressed in a separate session. Let's talk about key points. I suggested that basic accounting concepts guide the accountant for reporting, and this is going to provide them with the insight as to how to treat the various and sundry transactions of the business. We know that the accountant does have choices, and we'll see how the sum of those very same transactions can result in very different financial reports, depending on the choices that the accountant makes, again, in conjunction with the business. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use the discussion area. I look forward to working with you in a future segment. Thanks.
