CONNOR MAKOWSKI: Hi there. Welcome to part two of the Blink problem. My name is Connor Makowski. In this recitation, we are going to be extending the Blink problem to change over from minimizing cost to maximizing profit. And so you can see over here on the right-hand side, we have an updated problem statement. And the idea here is we make $45 in revenue per unit and we are going to define profit as revenue minus those transportation costs. So over here on the right-hand side, you can see-- or sorry, on the left-hand side, you can see I have an exact copy of what we had created for the initial problem. And I'm going to go ahead, I'm going to rename this. I'm going to call this actually P2, so for part two. And then I am going to start running some of this code. So I'm going to do the same thing we normally do. We're going to install the scx package and we're going to import the model from the scx.optimize. And what changes do we need to do to incorporate revenue? We can go ahead and we could actually put revenue in each item in this transport matrix. But probably more appropriately, there's a simpler way to do this. And so in this case, let's think about where we would put that. We would probably do that when we are doing some of this processing down here for t in transport. So again, this is that copy of what we covered in the previous video. And so we are just extending that. So I'm just going to run this transportation matrix and we are going to generate that data just like we previously did. We're going to have our same demand matrix. But what we're going to do is for each t in transport, let's go ahead and instead of calculating the cost and optimizing for cost, we are going to go ahead and optimize for profits. We're going to say, calculate the V-A-R-I-A-B-L-E, the variable profit. And in doing this, let's go ahead and think about what that profit would be. And again, we defined that as revenue minus transportation costs. So I'm going to say t bracket profit equals t bracket cost. Remember, we just calculated that above. And that's actually going to be 45 minus. So we're going to say our profit is 45 per unit minus our transportation cost. So that is about, I think, all we need to do there. So I'm going to go ahead and run that cell. Now we'll be calculating our profit for each item in our matrix. And then essentially we're going to go down to our model and we will call-- this model is going to be named Blinky 22_p. Let's just call it P2, Blinky22P2. And instead of minimizing, since we're maximizing profit, we want to switch this over to maximize. So now we are maximizing profit in terms from our model perspective. Now how do we do that? We have to update our objective function. Right now, the amount that we're considering is actually going to be the amount times the cost. We really want to change that from cost to profits. So we're going to say our objective function should be the amount times the profit for each item in transport and we're maximizing that. So let's go ahead and call this P-R-O-F-I-T. And that just matches that variable we created up here. Let's think about what else we might need to consider in this. Well, in our demand constraints, what we're saying is we have to meet or exceed all of our demand. And if that's the case, we'll actually ship a lot more products than we can actually sell because we'll ship a lot more products assuming that we're going to sell them than we actually have in our demand. And so this is a point in time where you might say, hey, actually I'm going to go and say this is going to either equals-- so I'm going to say the sum of the amount has to equal my demand. And again, that's because this is linear programming. Now to expand this a little bit further is in terms of a profit function, let's say there is a particular lane that actually doesn't make sense for us to ship. We actually lose profit on it. And in our business sense, or our business case, we might say, well, we shouldn't actually ship products we lose money on. Let's go ahead and just not meet that demand. And so we might actually say that is going to be less than or equal to demand. So if I'm maximizing profit, I'm going to push it as far up as I can, but I might not be able to meet all of my demand. So there's just some thoughts there on what you might want to do. In this case, let's just say the amount-- oops. That needs to be a less than. The amount that we're transporting when the destination name equals our demand, or our demand region name, we're going to say that has to be less than demand, less than or equal to. And so we can actually maximize our profit. But if some product doesn't, again, make profit, we won't actually ship it. So we might not meet all of our demand in this instance. So let's go ahead and-- that's the consideration we're going to have here. Then we're going to go out and we're going to solve this model. So I'm going to go ahead and click here and say, my_model.solve is the last thing I want to do. I'm going to run that. And once that's run, we can go ahead and rerun our show formulation code. What we can see here is our new formulation. And we can see that we are maximizing profit. So this is going to be a 32.4. So that's going to be the 45 minus the 12.6. So 45 is our revenue minus our 12.6 in transportation cost. We're going to say the amount that we ship here is going to be-- that's how much we make off of all the product shipped on that lane. And we can go ahead and do that for all of our lanes in our transportation matrix. And we're going to subject those to our updated constraint where the amounts that we ship are going to be less than or equal to our demand. So we can meet up to our demand. So it looks like that's a pretty good formulation. I'm pretty happy with that. Let's go down here and let's look at what our outputs are. So we're going to update this and call my_model.show_outputs with our new outputs. And it looks like we are going to be creating $320,063.28 in profit. So if we want to, we can go ahead and run a quick check on that. So I'm going to go ahead and copy that. I'm going to paste that over here in the question, which is what is our maximum profit? I'm going to go ahead and submit that. And it looks like we've done a good job because we got it right. So that is some extensions that you can do to switch over from cost to profit. As you begin working on that, you have to think about some of those considerations, like are there constraints that need to change? What do we need to change in our objective function, and how do we get that data into our matrices? So I'd encourage you, as you go through some of the problems in the classes, to really think about those different items and how you might make those changes, and really try and understand what's going on there. Anyway, this is the Blink problem part two. I thank you very much for your time.
