So now, let's dive a little deeper into supply chain processes. We're not going to go too deep here. We're going cover this in much more detail in SC3X. But let me just give you an overview. So everything in the supply chain can be viewed as a process with inputs that get transformed through some process into some type of outputs. And so this is a classic way of viewing supply chains. Every process within a supply chain fits this, as well. So for order fulfillment, you think of the flow unit-- the thing that's moving and being processed-- are orders. You take as inputs the receipt of an order. And the output is a delivery. For production, you take receipt of the raw materials or components. You turn those into a completed product. For outbound logistics, you take as an input the finished goods at the additive manufacturing, and you turn those into a delivery to a customer. Procurement is everything from a purchase order converted into receipt of materials. And customer service, arrival of a customer to its departure. That's the life cycle of the process of that customer service. New product development, from when you start until you launch the product. And then, you can think of the cash-to-cash cycle time, which is really the expenditure of funds all the way to collection of revenue. So you look at that whole cash-to-cash cycle time can be viewed as a process metric for looking at the transformation of inputs into outputs. In fact, one of the first models we looked at in one of the first lectures of this whole course was looking at the SCOR model-- the Supply Chain Operations Reference model-- by the Supply Chain Council. And this encapsulates everything within this supply chain and breaks it down into a handful of different tasks-- sourcing, making, delivering. These are all the execution. There's a planning phase that goes above that. How do I plan for each of those? There's return for any return activities. And then, all the other activities that enable these things. But what this shows is that I'm converting things and I'm processing through. And then, I have the return cycle, as well. So it's also a process view. We also saw a process view of supply chains as it goes from the customer all the way back to the initial supplier. We showed this view as well. And we dived just a little deeper into it to give you some flavor. So each one of these cycles, how the customer orders from the retailer, that's really a consumer. How the retailer orders from its distributor. How the distributor orders from the manufacturer. The manufacturer orders from its supplier. And this cycle can go on and on and on. Now, what happens in each one of these cycles is up here, let's say, the supplier in that cycle-- in this case, it's the retailer-- has to market the product it has available. If this is a coffee shop, it has the coffee urns out there. If it's a bookstore, it has the books out there. If it's an online, an e-commerce, retailer, then it has things out on its website. So somehow, you're marketing your product. Same thing down here for your supplier. You're marketing your product for the manufacturer, whether it's in a catalog, website, however. Then, in the process, the buyer will place an order. Again, if it's a retailer on an e-commerce site, then I go and I click on the web site. I might go and place it actually physically if I'm at a physical bookstore. For down here, I might trigger an order through my production planning. So I place an order somehow. The supplier receives that order. It might be immediate. It might be longer-term. They fill the order somehow. Sometimes, if it's a bookstore, a physical book store, I'll give you that book right away. If it's online, then I set that up to be fulfilled and sent to you later. The buyer eventually receives that order. And then, we hope they pay for it. So each of these cycles consists of separate little processes. And they all have the same format, but they differ a little bit in the details. And they differ not just as I go in the different order cycles with customer replenishment, manufacturing, or procurement, but it also differs by industry, by company, by their strategy. And so all that I wanted to get across in this very quick discussion is to view supply chains as an input-output process. And it changes. The inputs and the outputs depend on where I am in my supply chain, the type of industry I am in, and my strategy of my company itself.
