So if we want to decide whether to open multiple facilities, we need to think about the trade-offs that are involved. So in any kind of supply chain design, what you're trying to do is find a balance between competing interests, and it's mainly costs and service. And so if I look at costs, they're not all the same. There's a whole bunch of different types of costs that I incur. Inventory costs, there could be cycle stock, safety stock, pipeline stock, all these things change depending on the number of locations I have. Facility costs obviously increase as I increase the number of facilities. It could be the amount I'm paying for property, the energy to open it, the insurance, the labor, the fixed cost involved with that. Transportation costs for moving product both into the DC and out to the customers, and the inbound and the outbound cost don't always move in the same direction. The operating or labor cost, obviously, as I increase the number of facilities, my labor cost probably increased because I have more places to staff. And the asset cost, the cost of the facilities themselves. If I have a private fleet, those assets. But then I also have different service characteristics. And so if you think of service, I think about customer satisfaction. Right? I want to make sure the customer is happy and satisfied. When they order something, they get it. I want to look at sales growth. I want to make sure that it's growing. I want to make sure the profit is growing. Increased market share, all these kind of things. The challenge is in supply chain design, this is a strategic model. And so I'm looking things one, two, three years out. Very hard to measure those. So we can also think of something like response time. Am I able to respond quicker? And that whole idea of a level of service. And that's what we're really going to focus on here. And we'll talk more in depth. But in general, what we're trying to do with the multiple locations is find the balance that improves profitability, which means keeping an eye on our costs, then that increases our customer satisfaction or our service. So let's focus in on the cost first because they don't always move in the same direction. So I've a number of costs here, and as I increase the number of DCs, as that increases, obviously the cost will increase. The warehousing or facility costs because I've got more facilities. It's almost a step function, but it actually is an increasing step function because as I open more distribution centers, I'm locating them closer to customers, which means the property value be more expensive because you're moving into denser areas. So it's an actually increasing step function. Then you also have inventory costs. Now we know that inventory cost will increase as I have more distribution centers, and it doesn't increase in a linear fashion. It's actually a square root. And so that's based on mainly the impact of the safety stock. As we add more distribution centers, we assume we're adding them closer to the customers. Right? So the outbound, the yellow, this outbound delivery cost will decrease because I'm closer. So as I have more and more, I'll be closer and closer. You see a lot of online retailers opening up more DCs closer to urban areas so they can reduce this cost and actually increase their-- improve their response time as well. But it decreases the outbound delivery cost. Interestingly, as I have more of these distribution centers, my inbound, the cost for transportation from the plants into these DC's increases. Why? One, there's more of them, but the other is I have less volume going to each of them. So it's a lower concentration. So what maybe I could have done for one or two DC's, to ship by rail or by full truckload, which is the lowest per unit cost modes, I now might have to use LTL or multi-stop truckload. So as I increase the number of DC's my inbound costs will actually increase. So you'll see that I have both increasing and decreasing costs here. So we can see where there will be an optimal location. And this is an optimal number of DCs. And so that's what we're going to do in terms of cost. But now, we've got that whole other side of service. So when I talk about level of service, it means different things to different people. It's know, it's-- I don't know any company where it's just one thing. It's usually whole array of different things. And the problem is, which levels of service can we include in the strategic model? Now previously, we've looked at tactical levels of service such as Cycle Service Level, which if you remember back from previous classes, is looking at the probability that you stock out during a replenishment time, or the probability you don't stock out, rather, in a replenishment cycle, the Item Fill Rate, the percent of the items you ordered that actually come in, and then the cost penalties for each of those. So these are well-established tactical level service indicators, but they don't fit for a strategic design because they're influenced by stocking level not the location of facilities. You'll notice in the models that we've done so far, that we'll continue doing, inventory doesn't play a role. I'm just making my decisions based on mainly facility costs and transportation costs. So we can't use these levels, these metrics explicitly, but in strategic design, what we'll try to do is use distance to customer as a proxy. And so this is the best way we can get at in measuring the opportunity that you'll be able to meet these tactical service objectives. So the closer I am to the customers, the higher the probability, the easier it is for someone to be able to meet these CSL or IFR metrics. So we're going to use the distance to customers as a proxy here. Now this seems easy, but there are many different ways to measure this. So one is, I say allowable distance. So I say no customer is allowed to be more than x, 75 miles from the DC. So I make sure that there's a maximum level. Or I could say that at least 30% of all customers need to be within 20 miles. So you have some kind of absolute allowable distances. You might also have an average distance so that the average distance for customer to DCs has to be less than 22.6 miles. Whatever. Or the weighted average, so that you favor customers or regions that have higher volumes, the weighted average has to be less than some distance. So these are different ways to do it, and these are just two ways to do it. There are many different metrics. These are very commonly used. And so how would I model these? Well, one way is to not include it in the model but report it after each run. So if I do a run, then I say, OK, what is the average distance? What is the percent of customers that are within a certain distance? So I report it. The next level would be add a constraint to enforce it to happen. And so you'd say the average distance shall not be more than 20 miles. And I'll show you how to add that in as a constraint. And then the highest level, as you go from really passive to very active, I can change the objective function. There's nothing that says I can't make one of these distance equations the objective function. Minimize the average weighted distance from DCs to customers. If I make that my objective function, then it will minimize. It'll open as many facilities as possible close to customers, and then you'll be able to find out what the cost is, buy you're no longer minimizing the cost. So what we're going to do is start with this, and then we'll go and look at the constraints. So let's get started.
