CONNOR MAKOWSKI: Hi there. My name is Connor Makowski. And in this recitation, we will be covering the food on wheels problem part 3 using Google Colab and Python. For this particular problem, I would want to make sure that you guys first understand what's happening in the problem. We can see here now that we are considering three new hubs for hire, hub four, five, and six. Each one of them has its own distance or time matrix here as well as its own capacity. Now the one thing we're also going to keep in mind here is this kind of final note. We can still use our existing hubs in the model. If you're not familiar with this problem, I would recommend taking a second, making sure you review this. Try to fully understand what's going on. And we can move on from there. So over here in Google Colab, we'll get started. So right now what we're looking at is our food on wheels part two. We're going to go ahead and modify that. We're going to call this one-- we'll actually create a copy so File, Save As Copy. And we'll go ahead and save this as Food On Wheels P3, FOWP3. We'll save that. Now that we're in this notebook, we'll go ahead and we'll first install our SCX package. And once our SCX package is installed, we'll go ahead and we'll import our model from our optimization module. We'll go ahead and run that. Now once we go ahead and we do that, what we want to do is we actually want to modify our transportation matrix again so we need to include hubs four, five, and six from the central kitchen. We need that in there. We also need for each item from each hub four, five, and six to each area. So I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to say origin name is going to be K1. We'll go ahead and copy this. For example, I'll just start by copying this one. And we'll copy the whole example matrix here in a minute from K1 to, for example, hub four. So we're going to go ahead and create this hub four. That's going to be five so that time here is going to be five. So you can see over here from hub four or from K1 to hub four. That's actually going to be five. Now we can go ahead and I'll copy all of that data over here in just a minute. But we're also going to extend from each hub to each area. So I'll go down here to the bottom of our areas. And I'll say here we'll go ahead and we'll copy this. And we'll paste it. And we'll say from hub four to area one, we'll say that is actually currently-- that's actually correct. And we'll go ahead and we'll do that for each item. For each item in this particular matrix, we'll say from hub four to all areas, from hub five to all areas, and from hub six to all areas. So go ahead and we'll still maintain this same list of dictionary structures, we'll go ahead and extend it to fully build out our transportation matrix. And I'm going to piece that. And you can see I did a few other helpful items here so we'll say hubs for hire to each area. And so I was going to break this down so we know inside of this data if you ever want to take a quick peek, you can say from each one of our owned hubs to each one of our hubs for hire to each area that all exists there. So now that we've updated our transportation matrix, we'll go ahead and think about the rest of our matrices. Our kitchens matrix, that's actually not going to change. We have introduced a new constraint for our kitchen. We can also say for our hubs, has that changed? Actually, that has changed. And so what's changed about that? We are going to actually add our new hubs. But before we do that, we'll go ahead and add a new value to this list of dictionaries. I'm going to call this value is going to be type. And that type here is actually going to be an owned hub. So we have an owned hub. And then we'll go ahead and we'll create-- we'll copy this. And we'll say for each one of these types, we'll go ahead and put that information in eventually when I copy a new full matrix over. But we'll add a type for each one. And then for example, for our nonowned hubs, hub four, I'm going to actually say that one is actually going to be for rent. R-E-N-T. All right. So now that we have all of our hubs in, you can see for each hub, we have our limit including our new limits for hub four, five, and six. So hub four has a limit of 200, five has 200, and six is also 200. Those are all type rent hubs. And finally, our demand. Our demand actually has not changed so we should be pretty good to go on that. So you can see we've updated our transportation matrix, we've updated our hubs, and we should be good to go. So I just went ahead and I ran that data cell. And so now we have our transport matrix. The same thing we're going to do that we did before, for each T in transport, we're going to go ahead and create an amount variable that we're going to follow on that arc. And that should be the standard process we normally have had. The next thing we need to do is take into account the fact that we can only decide one hub to minimize the total delivery time per day. So how do we do that? We're going to go ahead and use a binary variable. So I'm going to go ahead below this transport cell, I'm going to add some new cells, a new cell. I'm going to say for h in hubs, I'm going to say we want to create a new variable called u sub h. Bracket u. So I'm going to create a new variable in those hubs items or that list of dictionaries. And that's going to equal my model. There we go. Model.variable. And that is going to have the name of probably something like it's going to be an F string. And that's going to be H bracket name. And we'll go ahead and we'll call this what use. And the next thing we can do is we'll go ahead and add a special thing here. You can see that colab is helping us out here. We can see that some options we have is low bound, up bound, category. And so in this case, we're going to go ahead and say our category-- we need to specify this category isn't a continuous variable. This is actually going to be a binary. So I'm going to say cat equals B-I-N-A-R-Y binary. And so I'm going to run this. I'm going to run our transportation one. And I'm going to run this data to create a new variable in our hubs for using that hub. So moving into our model, we can see here that we're going to do the same thing we did before. We're going to be minimizing our model. So our sense is still to minimize. We've created this object called my model. And what we're going to do is we're going to add an objective function. We're still going to be minimizing our total time. So our objective function will not actually be changing. Will our demand constraints be changing? No, they shouldn't as well. Will we have any new hub constraints? Actually, we will have a new hub constraint. So we are going to add a special linking constraint to our hubs. And so I'm going to say, what's our linking constraint? This is what we're going to do to enforce that binary variable. So I'm going to go ahead. I'm going to copy this constraint from our capacity constraint. This is a linking constraint. And that's going to paste that variable we copied from above. So let's go ahead and we'll change the name here. So this linking constraint isn't going to be capacity. We'll go ahead and call this linking constraint. L-I-N-K-I-N-G. or maybe just linking to keep it simple. And what's that linking constraint going to be? It's going to be the amount of everything flowing out. So when we're the origin, so the amount so t amount for t in transport if origin name equals h name. So right now we're saying everything flowing out if we're the origin has to be less than the limit of our thing. And this comes back to our capacity constraint. Well, this isn't a capacity constraint. This is a linking constraint. So we just need to say that it's going to be less than or equal to h, that use variable we just created, h use. And we're going to say times some m. Times m. So let's go up above and we'll actually define an m. I'm going to add a new cell here. I'm going to say M--- some big M equals 99999999, just some number that's big enough. In this case, we know the biggest data in our set is going to be a couple thousand maybe if all of our capacity is used together. So this should be sufficiently large as a large M. So I'm going to get ahead and run that real quick. So this hub has to be turned on in order for us so that use variable has to be one in order for us to take advantage of and flow products through this particular hub. Now if we wanted to get particularly clever, we could actually probably include this in with our limit. So I could say h limit times h use because that's technically not a variable. That's actually going to be a static value. So I could say times h use. We're going to keep them separate for now just to keep things pretty clear. But in theory, you could make this a little bit more concise by just directly applying that use to the limit if it is turned on. So in this case, we've now created a linking constraint. And then the only other thing we have to do is we have to enforce only that one possible hub could be turned on from those rental hubs. So we're going to actually go out of our hubs loop. So we were previously for agent hubs, we were adding each one of these constraints for each hub in the hubs. What we're going to go ahead here and do is add a special constraint. And let's go ahead and say my model, add constraint. And that's going to equal name equals some f string and function fn equals some function. So let's go ahead and fill out that name string. That name string is actually going to be probably only use one rental hub. I don't know if that really needs to be an f string. We'll just keep it there for consistency. So the function we're going to have is going to be the sum. So it's going to be a model sum. And that's going to be the sum of each item. So every time we use something for agent hubs, only if that type is a rental hub-- so remember we added that special type variable. So we're going to say the total sum of all of those binary variables has to equal 1. So we're choosing one. We have to choose one. But we're only going to do that for the binary variables that are for renting. So h use for h in hubs if h type equals-- what did we call it? Rent. Is that what we called that above-- if h type equals rent. Yes. So if h type equals rent, we're going to include that in this particular list. So I'm going to go ahead and add some brackets here because I forgot those. So we're creating a list of all the items we're using for agent hubs if the type is rent. So we're only doing this if rent. So were going to say that constraint has to equal 1. So all three of those, we can only pick one of them to choose. So we're enforcing use and only one. We're choosing one and only one. So if I go ahead and I run this, double check and make sure this all makes sense. I think we should be good to go. I'm going to go ahead and try running this. And we'll see what happens. OK. It looks like if each type-- this needs to be a comparator. So if h type equals equals rent, let's go ahead and run this again. And it looks like we've successfully run the code. Let's just double check that our formulation worked right. So I'm going to say I'm going to run this formulation showing. And inside of that, let's go ahead and look. So we have our start. We have our minimization function. We're subjecting that to each of our demand constraints. We have our capacity, our conservation of flow. This linking constraint looks like it's working pretty well. So let's go ahead and scroll down finally to our final use one rental hub, so h four use plus h five use plus h six use equals 1. So we have to turn on only one of them. We can't turn on more than one because they're binary variables. So it looks like our formulation is correct. We should be able to move on from there. And finally, we want to go ahead and show our outputs. Again, these are our outputs from the last time we ran it. So let's go ahead and click Play here. So we can see our current new outputs. If we go ahead and we look at that, it does seem to be working. So let's go ahead and we'll check it in add x. So to start, which of the following components should be included? We are using binary variables now, those use variables. We have an objective function. We are using a demand constraint. We are now also using a linking constraint and a conservation of flow constraint. We are validating capacity. And we are checking for nonnegativity in our continuous variables. So I think that should be good. Let's go ahead and submit. Looks like we're good to go there. And finally, let's go ahead and we'll dive a little deeper. So if we are showing our outputs here, you can see which hub we're using. So that's going to be hub four use. That's a zero. Hub five use, that's a one. So that means we chose hub five And you can see we have some flows on our hub five. So hub five use is one. So we've chosen to use hub five. Let's double check and see if that's correct. And how many boxes will be delivered from hub five? That's actually going to be the sum of everything coming out of hub five. If we want to do this programmatically, I think that's an important step we should make so I'm going to add some code here. We can go ahead and do that programmatically. So let's go ahead and we'll print the model.sum. So let's say model.sum of some list of items. And let's just say this is t bracket amount amt.value. So we're going to use what's called a .value here. This just has to do with the underlying modeling structure. In general, if we need to call the actual value that's received from a variable-- so if this is a variable in our model, we can go ahead and get the actual returned value from that by calling .value. So t amount.value for t and transport if that origin name, so t origin name equals equals our h name. Oh, sorry, not h name. Sorry our h5. So that is our h name. So h5. So the amount that we flow for t in transport if that origin name equals because we've turned on h5. We can go ahead and get that programmatically. We should see that's 101. Now in this particular case, it's pretty easy for you to eyeball. If, for example, you had thousands of these and you had to add them all manually and look into this, that's really not a good way to do it, which is why we would use this programmatic way. So we can say we're going to go ahead and say 101. How many boxes will be delivered from the rental hub? 101. Double check to make sure that's correct. Looks like we are also good there. And finally, what would the minimum total delivery time be per day? We're going to go back up and we can say this is our objective function. And that's going to be 4,050. 4,050. And then submit that. And it looks like we are good to go. With all of that said, I think this has been quite a good exploration into how to access some of the data after the fact as well as how to add some nice new constraint processes. I do thank you very much for your time.
