LAURA ALLEGUE LARA: Just wanted to give you a heads up on everything I've been insisting all along the recitation but just probably for you to keep them in mind at all times. First, getting familiar with your spreadsheet and keyboard regional settings, that's very important so to ensure that you're bringing all the information from the problem statement to your spreadsheet with no errors. Read the problem statement carefully. Probably this is something that you already know. But sometimes we read through all the problem statement just looking for a number and we go very fast through it and we're missing some key data points like disregarding a piece of information or going back to a certain scenario. It's very important to double check all the wordings that we shared, and remember, we're never trying to trick you. So if you need to have any piece of information, you'll find it on the problem statement. The next would be doing the best use of your time by not overwriting your models and color coding all elements. Trust me, these two small and very simple practices will save you a lot of time mostly when you're working on exams. You know exam windows are limited, and this is very important for you to actually use your time wisely in solving the problem and not just in replicating things you probably already did before but overwrote because you didn't notice. I would also add using how to debug your model guide. This was created so that you go step by step identifying what could be wrong with your model. So I encourage you to use that as one of your resources if you don't get the result you expect. And at the end, remember that as Dr. Caplice says, models are not making the decision. People is actually making that decision. So do not just run the solver once you have it all set. Think about the possible outcomes first as we did with the constraints. What is it that we expect to happen after we run the solver? And once we run it, analyze the results. Gather some insights out of it. Why do you think something happened? Why do you think the cost is higher or lower? Why do you think we got a better profit or not? And how would the model change if we change any of the variables or if we change any of its elements? Understanding our data will allow us to make better decisions so I encourage you to incorporate this practice as you go through the course. So it's time to move on now. Good luck with your optimization problems using spreadsheets and keep us posted on how it goes on the discussion forum and bring all your questions. We're here to help you. Good luck.
