In this segment, we will talk about the purchase of capital goods. Capital goods are large items like plants, buildings, equipment, heavy machinery, transportation equipment, locomotives, trucks, what have you. These are items that involve significant capital expenditure and last for a long time. So we want to distinguish here between direct material, indirect material, and capital goods. Everything that we talked about so far applies to direct material and indirect material. Capital goods require a few other considerations. So beyond standard purchasing, what you need to think about is first of all, emphasis on lifestyle costing. It's not the cost that you buy. It's the cost throughout the lifetime of the item. A lot of things are involved in this, and we'll talk about many of them later. You want to be able to estimate the residual value. At the end of life, you may be able to sell it. You may have to decommission it at a high cost. So you want to understand what it will be like at its end of life. You want to try the product. This is significant expenditure, and you don't want to just buy it without trying it out. You want to conduct some financial analysis, whether it's OK to buy it outright, whether it's OK to lease, to hire, or any other type of financial arrangement. Finally, there are many other financial consideration of taxes, government subsidies, and social environmental considerations. The issue here is as follows. You may build a plant in some place, or a warehouse. This means that the local government may give you some tax breaks, maybe even subsidize the development of infrastructure around your new plant because you're going to provide a lot of jobs in the area. So it has a social dimension. There may be also environmental considerations. You want to make sure that your new facility, for example, is not on some wetland, on some area that require a lot of remediation and a lot of preparation before you can make use of it. Let's now talk about the lifetime cost of capital items. This was the first item that we mentioned beyond starter purchasing in the last slide. So the first thing you want to talk about the specification. And here you talk about the design. You may want to work with consultants on the design. Want to work on the specification and on the requisition, how you're going to specify what you need from the supplier. The price, of course, has several elements, not only the purchase price, but commissioning, the start-up, the price of spares. You may have to pay for transportation, for insurance. There may be taxes and duties, all kind of cost items that you have to take into account before you decide which suppliers to engage. Then there is the purchasing process itself, the tendering, the contracting, which may be pretty complicated because we've covered the life of the contractors which may be 20, 30, 50 years. You may want to have inspection. The whole receipt process, there's inspection then, administration. You want somebody to handle the invoice, which may be pretty complicated. There may be some storage costs. Then you get into the installation, which may involved construction, again inspection, and testing, and site acceptance, again, making sure the site doesn't present any bad surprises. It may involve training and certification. All of these are costs that have to be taken into account. The operation itself during the life of the capital assets. How much will it cost to operate? How much will it cost to maintain? It may have to be modified over time when new technology can be incorporated, or new software can be incorporated in the item, the machine, the plant, whatever. What's the downtime? Can the supplier guarantee 99% uptime, for example? Can the supplier guarantee a steady supply of spares, or you have to keep some inventory of spares? What is the energy consumption there? All of these things have to be taken into account. Finally, when you talk about disposal at the end of life, what would it cost to decommission it? Some product may have all kind of material in them like mercury that cannot be easily disposed of. On the other hand, the equipment or the product may have some salvage value. You may be able to sell it. You may be able to scrap it. You may be able to deconstruct it and get some of the important metals and other parts out of it to use elsewhere. You may sell it off to somebody, but then you may need to train this third party. You have to think about all of this. Now, a few things to watch for in this process. The first one is local approval process. Because it involves large capital expenditure, many levels in the organization have the approval on the process. They have to understand, inspect, send it back, and approve the price, approve what you're going to do. There is a chance that throughout this process, the supplier will learn prematurely before the contract is done that he or she won the contract. This gives the supplier undue leverage, and you don't want to be in this situation. So you have to keep tight lid on the process. Tied to this is the purchasing department should insist on enough time for negotiations and contracting, and this time should be built into the contract and everybody in the corporation has to understand that it takes time, and they have to keep quiet about it and let the purchasing department do its job. Finally, something that was mentioned before, you want to include performance [INAUDIBLE] guarantees in the contract. You want to make sure that over time, the plant, the machinery, whatever, will be working and will have certain uptime, and the supplier will be responsible for this. So let's stop here, and we will go soon to the next section.
