What are the key takeaways from this lesson? Well, we covered a lot of material, but it's all really related to each other. So we started off talking about distribution channels. How do I get my finished products from my last stage of manufacturing down to my consumers? And we identified that there are four general types of players out there. There's manufacturers. There are distributors, retailers, and you, the consumer. Now, every company has a customer that's usually the next downstream partner in their supply chain. And so I make the consumer a little different. That's the end consumer, the end customer. Now, these different channels can have all of these components or just a piece of it. Now, firms will use multiple flow paths for their different products. They might use distributors for some of their products. They might deliver directly from the manufacturer to their retailer locations for others. They might go straight to the stores instead of the DCs for others. The design, the specific flow, is a function of the supplier, the customer, and the product characteristics. So you'll see multiple distribution channels used by a same company. They will rarely use one supply chain or one distribution channel. Then I went into omni-channel, and this really changed everything. Having e-commerce with the internet, that changed a lot. But it's dwarfed by what's happened with the mobile commerce or m-commerce. Because this changes how consumers research for what they're going to buy, how they place their order, how they receive the product, how they pay the product, and how they return the product. So this opened up a whole wide number of options for consumers, which is great, but it introduced a lot of challenges for the retailers. And so retailers need to adjust where they ship from, where they ship to, and how they actually use their facilities and their workforce. As we discussed, there's a lot of complications. Because now I can move product from my DC, from a fulfillment center, or from a store itself. So this raises challenges in terms of inventory visibility, workforce use, and facility design. So there's a lot of challenges here that are being worked through. That's why it's so exciting, because we don't know what the final form is going to look like. Just like in the 1995 to 2000 time frame, no one was quite sure what online internet retailing would look like 10 or 20 years later. We're at that same place now for omni-channel. And finally, I talked about reverse logistics, which is a huge field. And there are many people who have done a lot of great work there. And this has always been important, but it's becoming more important due to online and omni-channel kind of distributions. Because if you order things online, you have a much higher probability of sending it back for return, about 30%. Almost a third of all materials are sent back. So if you combine the reverse logistics with the forward logistics, you have what's known as that closed loop supply chain. And so we talked about different things like containers and pallets and how those actually fit into this reverse logistics flow to form this closed loop supply chain. So if you have product coming up through reverse logistics, if it's getting returned, you have a variety of recovery options. You have reuse. You can repair, refurbish, or remanufacture. And we said that's really level of degree of quality, whether you make it good enough to use or remanufacture up to the same quality level as the initial product. You can cannibalize it for parts and components. You can recycle it for base materials, or you can dispose of it. So understanding and managing your reverse logistics is becoming much more important with the increase of online returns as well as increasing regulations. So that's what I wanted to cover. So I hope you enjoy the videos. Do the practice problems and go to the discussion forum. Talk about all these different things that we've been talking about.
