Hi. Welcome to the supply chain finance module. This segment will focus on cost accounting systems. Now, in this segment, the objective is not to make you an expert. Instead, I want to introduce you to some fundamental concepts relating to cost accounting systems, which are also referred to as cost systems. You'll learn that there are different methods used to track cost, and that there are some trade-offs and limitations associated with the different choices that are made for recording costs. Let's start with cost accounting. Cost accounting serves a different objective than financial accounting and different than tax accounting. The objective for cost accounting is to measure costs that will enable the firm to understand their business operations. And it enables the firm to make better decisions, informed with proper information about the costs associated with conducting their business. Cost accounting creates reports and conducts analysis for use by managers within the firm. The analyses are not expected to be used externally. They are used to inform and motivate management action. Therefore, the information that will best inform the management and provide decision support really ought to be tailored for each firm, depending on their situation and their objectives. Keep in mind that for cost accounting, the accountants do not have to follow the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, because it's not important to make comparisons with external parties. Any comparison of product costs with external companies' product costs would first need to be studied to make sure that the measures are comparable. There are many different systems that exist to track costs and allocate overhead costs. The traditional cost system sets a standard for the cost and then compares the variance from that standard when assessing performance. They often use one factor to allocate the costs, the overhead cost. And that could be labor hours, machine time, or machine hours, or a variety of other different factors. Activity-based cost systems use cost drivers that are based on activities and the resources consumed in performing those activities in order to allocate overhead costs. This will be covered in greater depth in a separate session. There are other cost systems, such as Lean accounting and marginal costing, but we won't spend time talking about those systems here. It would help to outline all the different types and categories of costs, so we start with fixed costs. Now fixed costs are those costs that do not vary with the production of volume-- volume of production. Examples include the cost of monthly mortgage payment for the plant, and the cost of the monthly insurance bill. For these costs, it doesn't matter how many units you make. That monthly payment will be the same regardless of how many products are made. Variable and semi-variable costs are costs that do vary with volume. As an example, the cost of materials, well, that will vary depending on how many products you make. If you make a lot of products, you need a lot of materials and your costs will be higher than if you produced fewer products. A semi-variable cost is one that varies in part. One example is the cost for commissioned salespeople. Many salespeople are paid a base salary, which is fixed, and then they get paid a variable part, which is a function of, how many products did they sell? So that is an example of a semi-variable cost. Direct costs refer to costs of materials and labor that can be directly attributed to the production of a specific product. These are the costs that are included in the cost of goods sold, as we have discussed in previous segments. Now in contrast to direct costs, indirect costs are those that cannot be attributed to the production of a specific product. Cost accounting systems use various methods to take these indirect costs and allocate them to products in order to have a more complete understanding of the total cost for the company to deliver a product to the marketplace. This is referred to as overhead allocation. I just mentioned overhead allocation. For companies that operate manufacturing facilities, it is useful for those factories to understand not just the direct cost of producing a product, but also the total cost of producing their product. This would therefore need to include not just the material and labor costs directly associated with the product, but also those other factory costs that cannot be directly associated with a specific product. This could include the cost of quality control, maintenance, supervision, and utilities in a factory. This introduces the overhead allocation challenge. It is difficult to allocate overhead, allocate indirect costs when there is no direct relationship between the use of the cost-creating resource and the product. How can the company choose to allocate the overhead costs in such a way that provides management with an informed and accurate assessment of the cost to produce a product or serve a customer? This indeed is the challenge for the cost system. Now, most companies use what are commonly referred to as traditional cost systems. Traditional cost systems allocate costs to products using a standard. And the allocation is usually done on the basis of how much labor is used in the production of the product. There are a variety of ways that traditional systems allocate overhead. The fundamental approach is that the indirect costs are allocated by assigning a percentage of the indirect costs to each product or cost object based on a previously agreed standard. Let's use an example. Assume a factory has $100,000 in indirect costs and that factory produces 5 products in the following volumes that we see here, and with each product using a certain amount of labor hours, different labor hours for different products. How much of the overhead should be allocated to the different products? Well, if we use volume to allocate the overhead, well, then we'll use a percentage of the volume produced as a percentage of the overhead allocated to each product. So we see that the total volume of units produced is 38,000. So if we're looking at Product A, we'd say, well, the percentage of overhead allocated if we're using volume as a basis would be 5,000 over 38,000. Well, let's see that played out in an allocation using volume. Sure enough, we see 5,000 divided by 38,000 multiplied by the $100,000 overhead cost. And we see that the portion that Product A would absorb would be $13,158. Of course, we can see that played out through each of these different items. Now, instead of allocating on the basis of volume, what would the case be if we allocated using labor hours? Well, in that case, we will use a percentage of the labor hours used by each respective product as a percentage of the overhead allocated to each product. This results in very different overhead allocations. Let's walk through the math here a little bit. Let's look again a Product A. 200 labor hours consumed in Product A. Well, that as a percentage of the total 2,100 labor hours, that's 200 over 2,100 times $100,000. The allocation of overhead in that case is $9,524. That's a pretty big difference we see between those two. But if we look at some of the other numbers, wow, look at this one, Product E. We see a huge difference. So it really does matter how the accountant makes the decision on how to allocate the overhead, because it can have meaningful impact on the product, how the product costs are represented. Now, 50 years ago, when labor represented a large percentage of the product cost, using labor as a basis for allocating overhead seemed to make some sense. Today, labor costs represent a smaller part of the total product cost, with more costs coming from the indirect category, such as the cost to sell and distribute the product. As a result, allocating overhead on the basis of labor sometimes provides a representative cost, but not always. In order to really make an assessment of whether it's representative, one must give due consideration to the specifics of the business, particularly when choosing the allocation method, of course. And that is considering, well, how important is labor as a factor? Does labor represent a large percentage of the product cost? If so, then it might be representative. Is using standard costs, does that make sense if there's a high degree of complexity? Probably not. Standards do not accurately represent the complexity of production systems. And then, of course, one has to consider the production volume, to make sure there are no abnormalities that might surface if you are allocating the overhead cost over very low volumes. An important concern for the business leader is whether the cost system is accurate enough. It may be possible to increase the accuracy, but it may also require an abnormally high cost to get that improved accuracy. Is the benefit worth the added cost? Therefore, a key challenge in choosing the cost system and then the allocation methods that will best serve the internal needs of management to provide them with better data and information for their business decisions. Actual cost systems, we use actual costs for the reporting and planning purposes. But this is a little misleading, since actual cost systems often include some element of standard costs, as we can see here. It is possible to have an actual cost system that reports the cost of materials using actual quantities but a standard price. Why not use the actual quantity and price? Well, this data is not always readily available and accessible when the product cost reports need to be prepared, and so some standard data is used. As we see here, there are several variants of this actual cost. The company may choose one of these depending upon what provides the most accurate and representative assessment of their costs. Here we see the actual quantities used here. We see here the actual prices are used here. And in this particular case, actual quantities and actual prices are used. But again, that's difficult to have that, because the cycle time to get that data and information is usually pretty long. Now, risks exist with using this kind of a system. If the standard rates used are too low or too high, the result will be inaccurate cost estimates. In either cases, where too much overhead is allocated or absorbed by the product or not enough overhead is allocated, well, this is a problem because the business would be making decisions based on inaccurate information. An example can help illustrate this. Let's take the case of a company that makes bicycle tires. And there's a budgeted overhead of $50,000 each month. That's what they anticipate in their overhead costs. Additionally, each month there's a budgeted volume or production of 25,000 tires. OK. So based on this, what is the planned overhead allocation per tire? Well, $50,000 divided by $25,000 gives you $2 per tire. But what happens when the actual overhead costs were lower, at $48,000, and the actual volume was a little higher, $26,000, well, what you get is over-absorption. The amount of overhead allocated to the product would be $52,000, compared to the actual overhead of $48,000, meaning that the cost system would have added another $4,000 to the cost of the product that should not have been added, at least in the reports they're providing. That makes it tough for management to make proper decisions when the cost system is not accurate. Let's talk about key points. Cost accounting provides important information to management regarding the costs of the business. In our discussion, we spoke only of allocating costs of products. But the cost accountant may also be tasked to identify costs to serve various customer segments, for example. The same principles apply. This is an important process intended to support management decision-making. Traditional cost systems do not always serve that objective well for product cost structures today, and we will see in other sessions other methods to provide more accurate cost reporting. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use the Discussion area, and I look forward to seeing you in the subsequent session. Thank you.
