So we've now covered the majority of this lesson considering the different types of cash flows we'll need to estimate when evaluating a supply chain initiative. We'll spend a little time now at the end thinking about the working capital cash flows, which tend to be the trickiest to calculate. Again, looking at our free cash flow template, we've considered the relevant cash flows that are listed here in the template. And we've considered how we can think about them as being projected over time. And we consolidate them into our free cash flows here at the bottom. Most of the items on the income statement are pretty straightforward. Revenues are accounted for as long as we've applied the cash flow principle. The cash is moving with or without principle that is relevant. These incremental revenues, cost of goods sold, operating expenses are pretty straightforward to calculate. We may have some discussion about whether it fits into COGS or operating expenses, depending on whether it's direct or indirect, but it really doesn't matter for the purposes of calculating our NOPAT at the bottom, because they're both subtracted. The calculation of EBITDA and EBIT are straightforward. Our depreciation is based on the capital expenditures that are relevant. So the depreciation comes in here. We have to adjust for it down below, but it's simply a matter of taking the number up here, n, and making sure-- well, it's actually a negative n-- and making sure we add it back in here at the bottom. So those are all pretty straightforward. Again, the bottom, the capital expenditures, are most likely going to be easily estimated, because they're r investments in long-term assets that are going to be pretty easy to identify. The most challenging part is just determining what are the working capital investments in determining the free cash flows. So let's think about how is working capital considered a cash flow? And let's remind ourselves of the free cash flow formula where working capital comes in. And from earlier in this lesson, what is comprised of a working capital requirement? The requirement is the accounts receivable plus the inventory subtracting out the accounts payable, where the suppliers give us time to pay, and then other aspects of current assets and liabilities, short-term investments, short-term debt, and cash. But the supply chain initiatives will affect primarily this cash-to-cash cycle and not those other cash and short-term investments. So we'll focus on those three aspects. And we're going to consider determining the working capital requirements is based on those three things. We need to then think about the cash flow is the net change. You see down here net change. The net and the delta here means change in this working capital investment required with the working capital requirements from the previous period. So if our previous period is t - 1, and we're going to period t, we have our accounts receivable, our inventory, and our accounts payable. And they're each going to change from t - 1 to t. And we account for all three of those and add them up together to get our net change and working capital. And that number at the end, if it ends up being a positive number that means it's an increase in working capital requirements. It's a cash outflow, but we're subtracting it so that becomes a negative cash flow in our free cash flows here. And a decrease in working capital requirements means that the change in net capital would go down. It would be a negative number, where subtracting a negative number, it becomes a positive cash flow, which is appropriate for our cash inflow. Let's do the simple example here to illustrate this a bit more how that happens over time. So let's consider a firm that's going to launch a new product. It's going to sell for two years and then be discontinued. So the working capital requirements are defined as follows. It starts at the beginning year zero, and there's a ramp up period where by which we'll start making sales. We'll be adding inventory. We'll be starting to have receivables, because we've made sales that we will collect the funds at a later period time. At the same time, we're buying goods from suppliers and paying them at a later period time. So our payables go up. And let's say we continue to increase our sales over the second year, we'll have even more receivables, more inventory. Hopefully, we'll not grow the inventory as much as we do receivables and sales, but by managing our supply chain well. And also, I manage our supply chain well, perhaps, we can extend our payment terms and extend the accounts payable, which is a good thing for working capital investment. And then zeros will ramp down, and by the end of year three will be down to zero again. So how do these working capital requirements turn into cash flows? Let's pull up the bottom part of our template. And let's start by calculating the three components down below starting with a net increase in accounts receivable, which I lost my e there. There we go, accounts receivables. And if you look at the top here, we go from 0 to 100 in the first year. So that's an increase of 100. And from year one to year two, we go, again, up by another 100. So from 100 to 200, that's an increase of 100. And then from year two to three, we go from 200 down to 0. So that's a decrease of 200 for period three for the accounts receivable. So we can calculate the same for inventory and accounts payable. You may want to stop the video for a moment before we reveal that. Let's reveal the numbers for the inventory and accounts payable. Again, the inventory goes up by 125 in the first year. It goes up an additional 50 to an 175 by the year two, and then we recoup that whole at 175 by the end of year three. And the payables also increased by 50, another 75 up to 125. And then we recruit the 125 by the end of year three. So each of the components are calculated, and then we can add them up to determine our net working capital investment. And we then have the signs over here to see how to do that. If we take 100 plus 125 is 225 minus 50 at the bottom gives us 175. And you have to look behind my writing here, but you should be able to calculate 150 minus 75 is 75. And negative 375 plus 125 subtracting a negative gives us a negative 250. We're recouping that working capital at that end. So how does this net working capital investment finally become a cash flow? Well, then we follow our sign here from our formula. In free cash flows, we're subtracting the net working capital investment. So it's a negative 175, and the 75 becomes a negative 75. And our negative, our reduction of 250 reduction of working capital investment becomes a cash inflow of 250. We recoup that capital at the end. So these are our cash flows relative to the new product launch here. We could double check this by going up at the top here calculating the total working capital required. So it's not the net, but actually the total working capital required. And we see that it goes from 0 to 175. So that would be a net outflow of 175 investment to increase up to 175. Our total in then goes from 175 to 250. So that's an additional 75 investment. And at the end, we recouped that 250 to give a positive 250 here. And we can see that those numbers match up with the calculation down there. So it's a way of checking by using the total working capital required over time. The timing of working capital cash flows is also a little trickier compared to the income statement. The income statement, the cash flows accumulate throughout the year and therefore are accounted for at the end of the period, at the end of the year. Whereas working capital cash flows, the cash flow occurs when the change takes place, in terms of the balance sheet transactions. So in the case of inventory, the time when the working capital cash flow would occur is when we are replenishing our stock the next time. So let's say we have 60 days worth of inventory, that means that at the end of the around 60 days if sales go according to our expectations, we will have to have a replenishment. And at that point, we will order-- because if we can make a change in policy to reduce inventory-- we will order a lower amount than 60 days. So 60 days into the year, we will already realize that reduced working capital requirement and therefore have a positive cash flow. So that 60 days comes in very early in the 365 day year. So you can basically account for that in period zero, because it's very close to period zero closer than it is to the end of the year at period one. Similarly, for the change in payment terms of receivables or payables, that happens the next time a payment is made. And also, typically, our payables and receivables are going to be less than 180 days. So that often will happen closer to period zero than period one. So in the case of days of inventory and payables and receivables when their low or less than 180, you can argue to account for those cash flows in period zero. And we'll find out in lesson two that it's actually to our advantage to account for those cash flows earlier than later. Let's close this section on working capital with another larger example considering a typical situation where a company is going through a SKU rationalization process. In this case, the manufacturer Yellow River is considering eliminating one other slow moving products. What are the relevant cash flows? Pulling up our free cash flow template, we go through the list here and say that, well, if we eliminate a product, we're going to have lower revenue. As a result of that, we're going to have lower COGS related to that lower revenue. Operating expenses is not as clear, because we don't know how many products we have. There's no information about that. And it's probably one of many products, and it may not change our warehousing expenses and other operating expenses. So it's not clear we would have an operating expense impact. Regarding depreciation, there's no mention of any kind capital expenditures. We kind of cross that off down below. And therefore, the depreciation is also probably something that's not relevant. The income tax would be affected, because we're going to change our gross income up top. That'll slow down and change our EBIT. So that will also end up going down as well, and it'll effect our NOPAT. But the clear thing we have to be able to calculate is the net change in working capital investment, because we are reducing this product, eliminating product. So these are the relevant cash flows. Let's make some assumptions here to come up some numbers. So to make things easy let's assume that this product represents a sales or revenue of $1,000 a day. So if you have 365 days of the year, you can pretty easily calculate the revenue. The COGS, let's assume there's a gross margin 10%. And remember, the revenue minus the COGS divided by the revenue, that's our gross margin. So basically the COGS is going to be 90% of our revenue. No relevant cash flows for the operating expenses. Let's assume that we have 180 days of inventory, 30 days of payables, and 90 days of receivables. And remember, we have sales of $1,000 a day. So that should pretty straightforward. And the tax rate, you can try to calculate that, or you can just leave that for the free cash template. It's usually easier. If you want to pause the video now, I'll let you do that. You can make your calculations, then we can check them. Trying to make this example easy, 365 days a year, $1,000 a day, that's a reduction in revenue. Remember, we're reducing revenue, because we're eliminating the product. Negative 365,000 impact on revenue, 90% of that is 329,000, no relevant cash flows for operating expenses, and our reduction of inventory, again, the $1,000 a day of sales. So 180 days of inventory is $180,000. We're reducing that. We're also reducing our payables and receivables. And let's calculate our taxes, once we put in the template. And the numbers here are rounded off to the nearest thousand, just to point that out. And again, putting it into the free cash flow template, projecting forward, let's not assume any inflation. So if we put this in the template-- there's one thing we didn't really discuss yet as to whether these cash flows here, the reduction and receivables, inventory and payables, which add up to be a negative 240, because we have negative 270 plus a 30, because we're subtracting out the negative number gives us negative 240, should that happen in period zero or period one? Well, the receivables are 90 days. The payables are 30 days. Those transactions will likely hit the balance sheet earlier in the year, closer to period zero. Inventory is right in the middle, 180 days. So you could argue either way. But let's, for argument's sake, assume it all happens in period zero. We've plugged in our lower sales and our lower COGS as a result, reduce our income, our gross income by 37,000. That'll reduce our income tax burden as well. And that's a relevant cash flow even if we're not paying taxes. Maybe we're our profitable this year. But we can still account for this negative, the negative cash flow of the taxes, even if we're not paying taxes this year, because we can carry that loss forward and realize that reduction in taxes in the future. So we'll still count that negative, that reduction in income taxes to have a net impact of 26,000 hours less NOPAT. So we've got a trade-off here. By eliminating, Yellow River has freed up 240,000 in capital upfront, but at a cost of 26,000 hours in cash and loss cash flows in the future. And the question will be, is this a good initiative or not? And this is where we need to move on to lesson two where we will calculate the figures of merit an acceptance criterion to determine if this is a good initiative. But we've completed now the really difficult part of our cash flow analysis, and that is determining the relevant cash flows.
