The third suggestion we have is to be experimental. And there's two aspects to this. The first one, we ask you to go spiral. What do I mean by this? Well, I suggest that you use the spiral method versus what's known as the waterfall method. The classic way of developing software, actually, was the waterfall method, where you spend six months understanding what the customer wants. Then you spend six months developing the requirements. Then you spend a year or six months, actually, writing the code. You test it, and then you deliver it. So it's like a waterfall-- each step falls to the other. The problem with that is when you get to the end, the requirements might have changed, or the customers didn't really quite understand what they were being asked. So as opposed to that, there's the spiral method that I'm showing up in the top right corner. And the idea is you start simple. You evaluate it. See how well it does. Get feedback, and incorporate that in the next version. So you start small, and you keep building and building and building. It's a great way to develop software, for a bunch of different reasons. And it's very similar to what we talked about back in SC1x, about the Pinata principle. Give people something to comment on fast. Be ugly early. Just give them something to critique because something you fix at this level early on will be much easier to fix than something out here after you've spent six months developing the model. So the beautiful thing about the spiral method is that start small, add to it, and it really improves the overall solution. So some of the benefits here-- you can build confidence in the model early because you get people on board. And if they see an early flaw, they can incorporate that into the next version very quickly. You can test the data quickly and identify outliers. This can help you separate them. This can help you separate the wheat from the chaff that we talked about earlier. And it can lead to an earlier answer. You might not need the full model. It might be that having something simple with just one product, for example, instead of trying to model each SKU, leads to an answer that's appropriate. And it also keeps those stakeholders engaged, so they're involved in the development and the creation of the model as well. So I encourage you to go spiral and use that spiral method. But I also encourage you, once the model's developed, just go crazy. The what-if scenarios are the best part of doing one of these engagements. So there's a big difference between creating a model and running a model. Creating a model is painful. It's time consuming. It can be very frustrating. Running a model is fast. It's fun. And it can be enlightening. So that's the reason for creating the model is to be able to run it. So what are the benefits? You can test and cost out all these different competing strategies and ideas. If someone has a strange or wacky idea, you can model it and see how well it compares and see, does it make sense? It costs a million more dollars. Should we still do it? Because now you can model things and make decisions that are not pure cost based, but you can see what the cost implications would be if that strategy was followed. Additional runs provide insights into the internal trade-offs. You start understanding what level of service does to different flows within your network. That's the internal kind of trade-offs within your network. It provides opportunities for serendipitous discovery. What do I mean there? Something you weren't even looking for, but you see something because the way you're modeling it, it might make you look at your supply chain with fresh eyes and come up with something you hadn't thought of before. Multiple scenarios also better prepare your firm for future conditions. Try it under different settings, different input, and you see how the supply chain reacts. We did this when we looked at robust optimization. It's also a way to ride better communication with your stakeholders. Your stakeholders will probably want to see many different what-if scenarios. What if we close this plant? What if we open a plant? What if we treat this region differently? All of these different things make the stakeholders more confident in your model and the ultimate decisions. And you're able to model different competitive responses. What happens if you need to expand into a region or get contracted out of a region? What if a customer moves in and your volume drops? So you can use all of these to model within what-if scenarios. So once you develop the model, I highly recommend you go crazy with what-if scenarios.
