So what are the key takeaways from this lesson? Well I think the main takeaway is picture. If you can keep this picture in your mind, you'll understand how the master production schedule interfaces with the MRP and the DRP systems, and how the MPS is really the communication tool between sales, what we think we're going to sell-- sales and operations, planning-- and what we're allowing the sales guys to go out for availability to promise. So some of the takeaways. The NPS, again, it's a communication tool. And it works both ways. It allows the sales and marketing guys to communicate to production, and allows production to communicate back up to sales. The whole idea of time fencing I think is really important too. And this is a way to reduce nervousness. And simply, as things get closer to my time of production, I don't allow as much change. So I might, within three months let's say, have no changes to production. Within three to six months, I allow some changes, maybe allow the order quantity to change, but not the SKU selection. And then above a certain time, I don't care. I allow free reign. And so as I get closer to my time of production, then my range of flexibility reduces. It's a powerful concept. We talked about MRP, material requirements planning. And what we're really doing is determining when and how much to order for components. Our inputs are the MPS and the bills of material, just a list of ingredients. And we showed how, with using a simultaneous and sequential optimization, how you can use the MRP to coordinate between different firms. Then we finished up. We talked briefly about the DRP, or distribution requirements planning. And again, it's a mirror image of the MRP logic. And so it assumes deterministic demand, all those kind of things. But you can modify it for uncertainty. But it's a powerful tool to kind of understand how product should flow from your production down to your market through a multi-echelon network. So that's all I wanted to cover. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use the discussion forum. And I hope you enjoyed the lecture.
