Let's now discuss the process of sourcing itself. How do we go about sourcing? And sourcing process, could think about it as having several parts. Could think about first starting with internal assessment, assessing the market, collecting supplier information, deciding on the sourcing strategy, deciding on the bidding process, negotiate then select the winner, and implement the contract. After this, you can think about a continuous process during the life of the contracts of measuring, reporting, capturing the lesson, ensuring compliance, and getting ready for the next year or the next contract time, the next time you're going to run a sourcing process. So let's talk about each one of those step in detail. So what is included in internal assessment? Here, you want to confirm the cutaway definition. You want to talk to the engineers, find out what exactly people are looking for. You want to evaluate the baseline information. What's available in the marketplace? How much is it cost last time? You want to identify the company customer. Who is it that you are buying to? Who are the key constituents here? Who you are buying for and who are the decision maker? And you want to understand the current purchasing process, especially if you are going to change it. The next step is market assessment. You want to analyze the dynamics of the market and trends, or pricing going up, going down. Maybe you should delay it by two, three months, and have a better-- if the price is going down, better pricing. You want to identify all the suppliers and find out what competitors are doing. Maybe somebody has a good idea, here. You want to collect supply information. You want to survey the supplier. You want to tell them what the evaluation -- You first have to decide what the evaluation criteria are. As we mentioned in the introduction to this lesson, there can be many criteria beyond price, and you want to verify the spend analysis. How much are you expected to spend, what's going to cost, how much would be spent with this supplier in general? In the sourcing strategy, you develop the specification for what you're going to buy. You identify the sourcing levers. Is the supplier already doing business with you? Some suppliers. Are some suppliers in dire need for more business? Are some suppliers don't need business at all, and you would be expecting a high prices? Then you want to develop end state summary, what it would look like after everything's said than done. You also want to determine what I call potential mega-supplier approach. There are now some very large suppliers in many industries. And with those suppliers, the process is different, because if you're a manufacturing company, you may both buy and sell with this supplier. And there may be a relationship at the top level that you should be aware of. Next you decided on the bidding process. You develop a request for proposal and disseminate the evaluation criteria. You decide on the bidding format, and as we'll see later, we mentioned before there are several auction types and several bidding strategy which we talk about later. Develop the messaging for the supplier, actually developing the request for proposal. Then you conduct the bid, and you end up with a shortlist of suppliers. Usually not one. Because then you want to negotiate with the shortlist. They may have services and idea that you didn't think about originally. So you want to elicit it from the few suppliers who you deem by now to be the best. You want to select the supplier and get a contract. Then you implement. You developed implementation plan and communication plan, so everybody in your company and their company knows what's going on. You develop a measurement and an audit plan. You want to make sure that you monitor the performance of this contract and this supplier. You also want to capture intellectual capital. If this supplier is doing something interesting, you want to make sure that you understand it, and if need be, you can perform some of it by these capabilities. At the end, of course, there's a feedback loop which we talked about before. During the life of your contract, you measure and create reports for the performance of the supplier, you captured the lessons from this performance, and of course you always ensure compliance. All this makes sure that next year, or the next contract period, you are ready and you're even in better shape than you came in into this contract negotiations. How many ways to evaluate suppliers? One standard way of evaluation is to create what's called cobweb diagram, with several types of metrics. So here, we're talking about quality, cost competitiveness, the administration of the supplier, their technology, their assistance, how are they on the sustainability measure, how are they on the innovation measure, are they responsive to your need? Do they improve the logistics, the delivery, the level of service? And then you want to have suppliers measure along this dimension. This is the red dashed line here is one supplier. You can have another supplier, and this gives you some type of comparison between suppliers. There are various ways of doing exactly this. So the key sourcing levers are the following-- leverage the buying power, we talk about consolidating the buy. You want to rationalize product and service specification. Maybe you don't need a very complex product or service. This would mean that there would be more suppliers who can provide it, and it will be simple to get. If somebody is actually a strategic partner, you want to get into a joint process improvement. Actually, you may want to do it with a lot of suppliers, especially if they do something interesting. You want to think about how the relationship can be a structure to the benefit of both sides. In many cases, you find out that you have to change some processes in order to get the process to work better. You want to make sure the information is transparent throughout your organization to supplier organization, so a lot of people you can comment on what's going on, and make sure the process keeps going. And global sourcing, of course. You always want to make sure that you are aware of all suppliers around the world. Finally, you should think about being a good customer. Very few people conduct supplier survey to find out, how are they easy to do business with? Once you get the reputation of being difficult to do business with, suppliers will take it into account in their bid. You also don't want to leave the contract with the lawyer. Future users must be involved. So it's not only your lawyers, it's the people in your company who will be using the product or service. Even in tight contracts when you think you thought about everything, a lot is left out. And a lot relies on the people and understanding. So you don't want the lawyers on both sides to understand what was going on, you want the people who are involved, who have to supply the product or service, and to use the product or service, to be involved in the contract, because they'll remember what was the meaning, even though it's not-- or what was the intent, even though it may not be in a contract. Remember that if a contract is done by procurement and legal and then thrown over to the people who have to execute this, this is the only record of both suppliers and customer needs. And may not reflect needs, especially when the needs are changing over time. So you want the contract to reflect the intent, and this can be only if the people who supply it and use it are involved. By and large, smaller companies are better, because they rely more on suppliers, so they don't try to be overly harsh on the suppliers. And they're not shy about asking help for ideas, for innovation. Finally, big companies can help suppliers when times are tough. And this is usually remembered. For example, during 2008, during the financial crisis, Proctor & Gamble as what as Intel and others started giving critical suppliers long-term contracts. Some companies even use their own credit to help supplier obtain financing. Remember, that one of the main difficulties during 2008 was for company to obtain credit. Credit just dried up. So companies like Proctor & Gamble, Intel, some of the big companies could use their credit to help supply get financing. Some companies even invested in the supplier, in order to make sure that they'll still be standing when the tough times are over. Let's stop here, and go to the next segment.
