So now let's try and run some more advanced scenarios. And so we talked about these, and we did the first four to reducing the number of distribution centers, and we saw that we hit some infeasibilities. And now we're going to run scenarios 5 through 10. And these are just testing different things, different designs. So the first one-- what happens if I open the Bellow Falls plant? Remember, that's up here in Vermont. It's a little north. If you look, it's a little closer to all the distribution centers. Unfortunately, it's a little more expensive-- $2 per barrel to handle, and they have limited capacity that they can provide us. Now, they might be able to negotiate for more capacity, but this is the initial offer that we have. So the question is, it worth it? Let's see how we would estimate that or try to figure that out. So I would set the capacity, which is in cell G4, to 250, and then I loosen up those constraints for P_MIN and P_MAX max. That's cell C 33 and D 33. Set it to 1 and 5. So I'm going to let the model decide how many distributions to open as well as allow it to look into the capacity out of the new plant. So here's that new capacity. You see I added it to 250 right there. So it allows me to go up to that. So this is the solution. I run the same model. Everything else works. What do I end up with? Well, I end up using all 250 units. How much has it saved me? Well, remember, I should compare this to scenario 2, which had the 3 DC optimal, which was around $68,700. So I really only saved about $250 a week. That's not that great. That's a little bit, but it's really not that much money. But because I'm using all of it, maybe I want to do something different. Maybe I want to buy some more capacity, because maybe it's worth doing more, and I'm going to save even more money. So let's see. Let's call this scenario 6. And now I want to see, should I use an extra capacity, and how much would it be worth for me? So all I'm going to do is set the capacity in cell G4. I'm going to set that equal to 2,000 right here. Why 2,000? Because I know my demand will never exceed that. So I'm trying to see if I allow the model to consider using more than 250, would it? And in fact, it does. It uses another 250 units. It looks like it uses enough to be able to deliver-- if you look at this-- everything that Nashua needs. And so what we've essentially done, Scranton is serving the southern market-- SP, which is Springfield and Wooster, and so it's going straight there. And the new plant is serving Nashua. If I look at the cities that Nashua is serving, they're all in the north-- Brattleboro, Concord, Manchester, Nashua, Portsmouth. They're all the same. And then the southern are being serviced by Scranton. It makes sense. Now, I don't know how much Bellow Falls would charge me for additional amount for this capacity, but I can figure out how much more I'd be willing to pay. So this is a nice thing that this model does-- it shows that I save $300 a week roughly. So now I know what my limit is. I don't want to go and pay more than that. I probably don't even want to pay up to that. But it gives you a sense of how valuable additional capacity is to you and how much you'd think you might need. So that's a pretty nice thing. It's a nice outcome that the tool can provide. So let's keep going. Let's run some other scenarios. Scenario 7, I want to look and say, OK, what happens if demand goes up? So all that I did here is I went to these gray cells that are in row 26, and I increased the demand. I increased them by 50% over what we had before, and I just resolved the model. What happens? Well, I'm allowing Bellow Falls to be in there, so I've got the two plants. And you can see what kind of happens. We have a division. The southern gets a service by Scranton. The northern DC's get serviced by Bellow Falls. Makes sense. Now we can compare, how much do I save from that? How do I compare that? Should I compare that to the baselines? No, because the demands have changed. This is moving 3,000 units through, not 2,000 anymore, because I assume demand went up. I also made the assumption it went up uniformly. You can play with this in many different scenarios. You could test and say, what if the Boston market explodes? What if Nashua explodes? What if some other city goes down? So you have all these different options you can do to test the robustness. For this simple case, I just said, what if everything goes up? So we see that it kind of split the network, which kind of makes sense. And so this provides a little extra level. And it only used 4 DC's. It didn't open Wooster. So that's kind of interesting. Let's see what happens now if I have the same demand. So it's 50% higher from what we saw before, but I don't allow the new plant to open. This is what I want to compare it to. So with the plant, I'm spending about $100,700 a week. Here, I'm spending $101,300 change. So it's pretty small. It's less than $1,000 difference. So having that extra capacity up there at Bellow Falls not really doing much for me. Now, I can look and see even more, but it really isn't that big of a savings if I go up that much. And notice that the local distribution doesn't change. The only thing that changed was where it came from. So let me go back. You see here, I was shipping Bellow Falls to Boston and Nashua, Scranton to the other two. Here, I'm keeping the same ones open, but everything is from Scranton, so that's the only thing that changed. None of the distribution from DC to cities changed. Two more scenarios to look at just to give you a flavor of what we can do here. Scenario 9. We just built these mega DC's. We might have just acquired one of these. And they're big 1,000 barrels per week capacity ones, the ones in Boston, Providence, and Wooster. I want to keep those open. The management seriously wants to keep those open, because they made investments. Let's see what happens. So I can force them to be open. How do I do that? Well, I want to reset the demand to the original values. Make sure you come back to Earth. We're not at the 50% more anymore. I set the capacity for Bellow Falls back to 0. I set the P_MIN and P_MAX max to 3, so only 3 DC's will be open. But how do I enforce it to only open those three? There's two ways you can do it. What I did in this model, I set their fixed cost to a ridiculously high number-- $9,999.99 So I made it really high so I know the model will never pick them. Another way to do it would be to set their capacities to 0. Either way would work, and you'd get the exact same answer. Try it. See what happens for you. But the end result here-- by keeping those open, I'm increasing my outbound cost. Which makes sense, because yes, it's fewer DC's, but they're not close to the customer. They're not the ones that I would pick to get closer to the customer. Remember, Wooster was never selected when given it's free. It's a little further out. So now we can go back and say if we want to keep these open, let's make sure we understand what the costs are. And maybe there are other reasons that we don't know about to keep them open. But now we know what it's costing us to keep them open. One last scenario. Because all we've been talking about is cost so far, but what about service? So what I want to do here is I want to make sure the max average distance is less than 25 miles. I want to make sure customers are close to the DC's. That's a good proxy for having high customer service. I want to make sure that 80% of the demand is within 50 miles. And I'm going to allow the new plant to be open. You see all these different combinations that you can test. So what am I going to do? I'm going to make sure the demand is set originally. I'm going to set the capacity back here to 250. I'm going to set the P_MIN and P_MAX max equals to 1 and 5 respectively, so I can let the model select. And then I'm going to set these parameters in cells D 34 and C 35. Check in your spreadsheet to make sure that my max average distance is 25 and 0.8 is the minimum percent. So if I solve that, this is my solution. And we see that what happens when I require a higher level of service, all five DC's open. And so it looks like the BF plant, the new one, only delivers to Nashua. Nashua is taking care of most of the northern, because that helps me get closer to those customers. Without Nashua, you're going to have a big jump in customer service, because it's better located to those northern cities. But then you see that they're all fully used. And look at Springfield. Springfield is really tapped out. That could get you to start thinking about some other things, maybe explore what would it take to expand capacity. Can I do something there to increase my throughput at the Springfield plant? So I did six new scenarios, scenarios 5 through 10. And what I'm showing here is the baseline. Then I'm showing scenario 2, which was the optimal 3 DC, because that's what we want to compare to. Because if I let anything else be free and I let it pick, that's the one that I want to do comparisons to, because that's the lowest cost. So I compare these, and I say, OK, what happens if I open up my plant? What if I allow infinite capacity at that new plant? Remember scenario 7 and 8, I messed around with the demand to see how we handled increases in demand. That's these ones. And then I looked at keeping the same three big DC's open, and then what happened when I enforce a level of service. As you're guessing, there are an infinite number of different scenarios you can run. We'll talk more in later lessons about how you should run this process. But I wanted to demonstrate that using a very, very simple model, you can have all these different runs. And these different scenarios are testing out different policies. Whether I open more DC's, whether I open a new plant, whether I enforce a certain level of service, all of these are different scenarios. And what this model allows you to do is to put a price on it and let you rate it out in terms of all the other performance metrics that we have here. So this is the real benefit of having a model like this.
