So when we talk about robustness, we're really trying to understand how does my system, how does my network handle demand uncertainty without making major changes? Can it withstand different changes to demand? So let's talk about it, because so far we've assumed in our network design models that the demand, for example, the region is five units per week, per year, or whatever our time unit is. We assume it's a constant number, and that's usually taken as an average for that region. However, we know that's not always the case. So in this little chart, I'm assuming the horizontal axis is say weeks, right? And the vertical axis is cases, tons, whatever, the units. And so if we assume, for example, that a region has a demand of five units per week, then we're assuming that it looks like this across that time period that we're studying. When in fact, it might look something like this, which is a little more realistic, where we fluctuate around, but the average is still five. However, it might actually be something like this, where it's initially one unit per week, but shoots up to nine for the rest of the time period. So it ends up being on average five units a week, but it looks very different. In fact, I could have something where it's only one demand for one week is very high, I'd say up at, say, 130 units, but then at zero for the rest. And that, too, would actually have an average of five units per week. So we know that in reality we need to look at the underlying distribution, because, yes, we're going to model it as a one number, I have to use one number in my strategic network design for the optimization to work, but I need to be cognizant of what does the variability look like? And that will help influence how I treat that demand. So there's a couple approaches that are used in practice to handle this demand uncertainty. The first is stochastic optimization. This is where I characterize the uncertainty by some known probability distribution, and then the optimization tries to find the optimal expected value of that that is feasible for most outcomes. And now some approaches use a loss function to handle this uncertainty. Think back to inventory theory, where I have a loss function. So it's the expected amount that I'll be short, given that I have a certain quantity. So stochastic optimization, very powerful mathematical technique, requires lots of data, and the problem gets very big. You need specialized software for it. It's a good approach. Another approach is what we talked about, robust optimization. This is a newer approach that's been developed, and the idea here is that I get a set. We assume that uncertainty is bounded, and it's almost like creating a budget. A budget for uncertainty, a budget for the variability of demand, and I find the solution that's optimal within these bounds. So I find one that's not optimal to a point, but it's within a bound. And I could put references for both of these two techniques. They're in the key concept documents. But these are two approaches that both require specialized software, and are kind of different, newer techniques. Let me show you an easier way that's more commonly done in practice, that doesn't require any additional software or models beyond what we've already learned, and this is simulation based optimization. So the idea is I'm going to use Monte Carlo simulation, and I'm going to develop different scenarios. So all that Monte Carlo simulation is doing is randomly selecting what the value will be for the demand for a certain region, and every time I do it a new pick, a new selection, it's another random variable. We're going to solve the underlying linear program repeatedly for each of these new scenarios, and we're going to see what do the collective results look like? So let's do an example of this, because this is a nice powerful and easy approach to use. So we go back to our New England Root Beer Distributors, NERD4, and the objective, just to refresh everyone's memory, is we are a regional distributor of high-quality root beer. We're exploring network restructuring, conclude a bunch of different options, and what we're trying to do is understand how I should reroute my network. So I've got my plant in Scranton, I've got the five DC's located at New England Transportation from the plant to the DC's by truckload carrier. I store product at the DC's, and the DC's have varying capacity. So if you remember, this is what it looks like. My plant down here in the lower left, Scranton, Pennsylvania, and I've got my five candidate DC's, Springfield, Worcester, Providence, Boston, and Nashua, and the other cities that need to be supported. And I've got this expected demand, right? This is the expected demand in barrels of root beer, I think, per week. But the question is, what if the demand changes? How does that impact the design? So what I'm going to do here is show a technique that you can use using all the tools that we already have at hand. So what the idea is-- I'm going to generate scenarios. I'm going to do this in a spreadsheet, and I'm going to assume a probability distribution for demand. In this case, I'm going to assume that it's uniformly distributed around the expected demand. So when I said the expected demand for a certain region, for example Boston, was 450 barrels per week, then I'm going to assume that's the mean, that's the expected demand for Boston, EE[Di]. And then what I'm going to do is use a spreadsheet function that takes that value and multiplies it by a number. Now this number is one plus the RAND function minus 0.05. Now, the RAND function, if you haven't used this before, just returns a random variable between zero and one. So what this whole equation is doing is essentially adding or taking away 50% of the demand. So we're saying that if the demand in Boston is 450 units per week, then we're going to add 225 or take off 225, and that's the range that the randomness, the variability will act upon. So let me just clean this up a little bit. All right. So we're going to simulate this multiple times, and what I show in the bottom, here, is the spreadsheet. And so for Boston, I have 450, you see that's the mean. So row three is showing all the means, and then for each of the scenarios that start in row four and go down to row 11, here, and number them in column A, one, two, three, and so on, for the first scenario what we did is B$3 is just saying back to that Boston expected demand times one plus that RAND minus 0.5. So what I'm doing with the RAND is taking it off, so it goes 50% to 150% percent. So you can see all the different scenarios, and each time I run this, the random numbers keep changing. So each one of these is a scenario, and I do the same thing for each of the demands for each of the cities. So once I do this, and I did it about 100 times, I optimize it for each time. So each run what I do is I'm taking this demand for scenario one, I'm throwing into the optimization model, and resolving. Then I do it for two, then I do it for three, and I do it for four. So I do it over and over again, and then I look at what the results show. OK, I assumed a uniform distribution, here. But do you need to assume a uniform distribution? No. I can assume, for example, a normal distribution. If I did, I would just change the function that I'm putting here in cell B4. So I would use the NORM.INV function, and then I use that random number, zero to one, as the probability. Then the mean is the expected mean of that city's demand, and then I have to pick a coefficient of variation. In this case, I said 0.3. So it's 0.3 times the expected demand, that will give me a standard deviation. I could also, if I really wanted to be clever, make this a random variable, too. It doesn't matter. You can have all sorts of different scenarios of how you pick up the different demands for each scenario. But if you do this-- and what I did, is I ran 90 simulated runs, and the total demand across the network ranged from as low as 1,300 and as high as 2,400, which makes sense. It's about plus or minus 50%, and the median was about 2,000, which makes sense, it fits right within the ballpark. So here's what I came up with. The two centers, the two DC's that always showed up, every single time were Springfield and Nashua. That's really robust. So this is telling me, you know what? We want to make sure these networks stay, and it makes sense because then Nashua is serving the northern part, Springfield is serving a lot of the southern part. But then what's interesting, you look at the ones that showed up next likely, and then Worcester showed up 86% of the time, Boston 38%, and Providence 24%. So it kind of gives you an idea of how often a DC will show up. And it gives you an idea of the robustness-- where would I set things up? Where would I set my DC's to be more robust and not have to change when your demand fluctuates? Other things. I showed that Boston only opened when their share of the demand was 25% or higher. So that's interesting. So if I think Boston's demand is going to grow greater in proportion to the rest of the network, then maybe that's a nice one to add in, because that makes them a little more robust. And then we also observed some patterns, that Boston and Providence rarely opened together. Right? It was usually one or the other for these, because they're serving similar markets, and we found that instead, these two opened up more common. So what I showed you was an easy, quick way to handle robustness, build it in, see how robust your network design is. And so it doesn't require any additional software, any additional formulations. There are other, more sophisticated ways to do it, but this is just a great way, back of the envelope, to see how robust your solution is.
