We've set the model up in a spreadsheet. Now, let's solve it. So solving math programs in spreadsheets, we've got good news and bad news. Good news-- most spreadsheets today, whether they're free or you pay for them, have linear and nonlinear solvers in them. And they're available. That's awesome. This is something that's great, because they're out there. They're easy to use. And in many cases, like for LibreOffice, it's free. Bad news-- they all differ in how to load them, open them, and all the little details. However, the good news is, once you get them open, they don't differ that much. Just like the math formulation is for a class of problems, there's only so many things that they can differ on. So once you open them, the solvers are really very similar in how to use them. However, opening them, loading them into your spreadsheet, that's all different. So look at the reference document. I'm not going to spend any time on this video in showing you how to load the solver for your specific spreadsheet. So if you haven't already loaded your solver, stop the video, go load it, then come back. I'll wait. All right, for those of you who are ready to go, let's go forward. So we have SandyCo, and this is what we did in the last video. We have it set up, remember, cell B3 is my objective function. It's simply a sum product. My decision variables are in yellow. And it's from cell C5 to H5. And they're all the ones in yellow. Let me just circle them. Hopefully, everyone understands that. Those are my decision variables. And I've got my two supply constraints in rows 9 and 10 and my three demand constraints and rows 13 through 15. So whatever I mean-- if I'm in Excel, whatever your version-- I'm going to open up Solver. So if you don't know how to do this, stop the video, go to the resource argument, learn how to open it up in your version of your spreadsheet. So in Excel-- I'm going to show this both in Excel and then in LibreOffice, just so you can see both versions and see how they really don't differ-- you're going to come up with this little window. And you can see it ask me for my objective, min, max, changing variables, all that kind of stuff. Let me talk you through it. So the first thing you want to do is you want to set the objective. This is the objective function. And so the objective function is simply going to be cell B3. That's your SUMPRODUCT equation that's the function that you want to minimize or maximize. Then the next thing you do, you click that you want to minimize it. And then you're going to be asked, OK, what are my changing variables? Why they call them changing variables is beyond me. They're decision variables. They're the x, i, j's. So that's going to be C5 to H5, those decision variables that I put in yellow in the spreadsheet. Next, you're going to be asked to add the constraints. So you're going to click this little Add button. And then this little side window is going to pop up. And look at it, it asks for a left hand side and a right hand side, a left hand side and a right hand side-- pretty straightforward, everything that we've been talking about so far. So I'm going to add in that for each one of the constraints. So this first one is the non-negativity constraints. So I said that C5 to H5, all my decision variables, are greater than zero. Now, actually this is redundant-- and I'll explain that in a second-- because there's also this little check box down here, because non-negativity constraints are so widespread, they have a little check box-- so to make sure that all your variables are non-negative. But just in case, we put one here. And what I'm doing, I'm saying all of those variables-- C5 to H5-- is greater than or equal to zero. The next set of constraints that I want to add are the demand regions. And so all I did is I'm saying the left hand side-- and all I'm doing is saying this set of cells. And I have to say that it's going to be greater than-- so I do a little-- I make sure I select the right relationship-- and it's greater than this set of variables. You don't have to do each cell to each cell. You can do the array, or these set of cells. And then you do the same thing for the supply. So it's I9 to I10-- that's these cells-- less than or equal to K9 to K10-- beautiful thing. So it's very easy. Three quick little clicks, and now I've got all my constraints in. The next thing I want to do, I want to make sure I pick the method. There are many different methods in there. There's non-linear problems. There's evolutionary problems, solving approaches. Just pick Simplex, if it's there, and I'll explain for LibreOffice in a second. And then once you have it all in, you press the Solve button. And that's it. It's really simple. You'll get a solution like this. Another window will pop up once it solves. And if it doesn't, if it has a problem, it'll tell you, hey, found a problem, couldn't solve it, or whatever. And that's when you have to go back and fix your mistakes. But if it works, it'll say it found of a solution. It'll say, do you want to keep the solutions, or do you want to restore the original values? We're going to keep the solutions. You can also get a bunch of reports. I'm not going to talk about these too much. Again, we're going to focus on applying them. I'll talk about them a little later in a future lesson, but this is a little deeper than I want to go for right now. So all I want to do is hit this OK. And if you do that, then what happens is your spreadsheet looks like this. So now, this is my objective function. And it's been solved. This is my solution. You see how all the variables changed. And you'll see, hopefully, that all the constraints work. So you'll see that, in the formulation, even though I had this less than or equal to sign here in this cell, which is H, I, J9, it really doesn't do anything in the model. I could have this say AAAA, or type in anything, or leave it blank, it's really just for us for a visual cue, because remember, when you set this up in Excel, you had to pick it when you're opening Solver. So having this sign here really doesn't do anything. It's just a visual cue. It's helpful when you're looking at the model. So what is my solution? My solution is to ship 25 tons of sand from Plant 1 to Region 1, 75 tons of sand from Plant 1 to Region 3, 95 tons from Plant 2 to Region 2, and 5 tons from Plant 2 to Region 3. So my total cost is going to be $66,625 a week. And there's my solution. Now, we'll dive into what this means in a second. But let's go through and do the exact same thing in LibreOffice, for those of you using this tool. Exact same spreadsheet, you open it up, and you have a slightly different looking Solver window. But it's really not that different. So I've got what they call the target cell, which is the objective function. It's B3. You pick whether you want to minimize or maximize. You're changing cells. Why they don't use the word decision variables is beyond me. It's the same thing. And then it's actually a nicer interface to adding constraints. So you don't have to open up a little side window. You just put them right in. There are the non-negativity constraints. These are the demand constraints. And these are the supply constraints. So then I'm going to pick-- under Options, make sure you pick Linear Solver. If you pick these Evolutionary ones, they're a little bit different. You can play with them if you want. But to solve a linear program, which this is, you want to use a Linear Solver. It's faster. And the other ones are used for slightly more complex situations. So once I do that, I press the Solve button. And boom, I get this little window, saying you finished. Here's your solution. Do you want to keep the results? You keep the results. This is what you get. This should look very familiar. If you get a different answer in LibreOffice than you did in Excel, then you did something wrong, because the math is the same. An optimal solution is an optimal solution. And so the solution here is the exact same thing we just saw. So what does this solution look like? Well, here is a map of it, or a little picture. So I've got my two plants-- Plant 1 and Plant 2. And you can see, I'm shipping 25 from Plant 1 to Region 1, 75 from Plant 1 to Region 3, and so on. And I can just simply sum back and see that Plant 1 had 100 units at capacity, and I'm at full capacity there. So I'm using all of Plant 1. Plant 2, I'm only using-- what is that, 25-- I'm not using 25 tons worth of capacity a week. So I'm running about 80% capacity there. So if I look at this, I can also look at demand, make sure I'm meeting all my demand, and I am. And so you can look at this, and you can start saying, well, you know what, OK, this my optimal solution. But what if R1 starts asking for more? If they have any more need for demand, what am I going to have to do? Well, I'm going to be shifting things away. So you start looking at the solution and start understanding and interpreting what it means, because a lot of what this means here is I say, you know what, this solution, it might be lowest cost, but boy, I'm operating Plant 1 really tightly. Maybe I want to shift some things away from that. And it looks like R1 is only supported by Plant 1. Maybe I want to force some redundancy. So this is the first inkling of what a math program can do for you. It isn't just there to give you one answer and then you walk away. It helps you make a decision. It's a decision support tool. But let's keep going. And so I want to continue on this by making a slightly more complex problem with a transshipment problem.
