So we spent a lot of time talking about the mechanics of material requirements planning systems and how they work, and how they ripple the demand for the end items down to each of the components that have indentured demand. Let's talk about some of the benefits and limitations of the systems. So the benefits are pretty self-evident. They definitely lead to lower inventory levels. The MRP system allows me to better manage components. There's increased visibility. So the inventory levels should be reduced. So I don't need to just keep a bunch of stuff there just in case. It shows me when I need it, and how much. This should lead to fewer stock outs and less expediting, getting things there faster due to that increased visibility. Also, the relationships are clearly defined through the bill of materials. So it really helps in that aspect. And we expect, because the needs are explicitly modeled, there should be fewer production disruptions. There are some limitations though. Remember, this is a scheduling algorithm. It tells me when to place that order. It doesn't tell me how much to stock. It doesn't take into account holding costs as well as setup costs. It doesn't determine lot size. That's why we've talked about the fixed planning horizon problem. You have to do that in addition to the standard MRP logic. It doesn't deal with uncertainty. Everything was assumed to be deterministic. In fact, we never even mentioned safety stock really. And so I could kind of lump safety stock in. But what's commonly used, or is sometimes used, is something called-- I introduce safety time. And what I'm doing, instead of buffering the amount of inventory I have, I buffer the amount of lead time. So instead of taking seven days lead time let's say, I might add an extra day, make it eight days. And so I can treat that the same as what I do for safety stock, figure out how much of the uncertainty I want to cover, and just increase my buffer time accordingly. But MRP by itself does not handle uncertainty. It's assuming constant and known lead times. And we know in practice that just isn't the case, especially when I'm bringing things in a long distance. I might have multiple sources. I might have multiple means of transportation bringing them in. So I could have different lead times. It also doesn't provide incentives for improvement-- this one's kind of interesting-- because the MRP systems are so complex. You saw the number of components that are going to-- and most the products we take advantage of every day, that we have around us. And so they are very complex, and people are very hesitant to fix something that isn't broken. The old saying, don't fix it if it ain't broke, that applies to MRP systems. So you have something that's working. Maybe it's not perfect, but you don't want to break it. So there are some limitations. But it is widely, widely used. The other thing to remember, it's not static. It isn't like the system was created 50 years ago and hasn't changed. It's evolving. And so what started out as a very simple MRP focused on order launching, it's now evolved into something that covers the whole enterprise. And so it really takes a lot more into consideration, because it is very, very data intensive. It's making those tradeoffs. So it needs to have that enterprise resource visibility. And so what you're seeing is MRPs are becoming more ingrained in larger business decisions.
