In this lesson, we will talk about service. We all know that there's more than price to choosing a supplier, especially if it's not a commodity business. If there are not hundreds of suppliers out there, they're all replaceable, they're all competing with each other. This is not a common situation. And in many cases, the service, innovation, reach, and other factors that we all call service are just as important, and sometimes even more important, than the price that we pay just for the item itself, or for the bare-knuckle service. So let's talk about how, in most cases, services are dealt with. So the current practice, by and large, is what's called screen and auction. For example, we're talking here throughout this lesson about tracking, so let's assume that we decide that we want to have only truck companies that are 95% or better on time. So out of all the bidders, we define a group of suppliers, just those whose service meets our minimum service requirement. And among those, we conduct an auction based on price. And this, is some sense, takes into account both service and price. However, it has an important drawback. It's arbitrary. The cutoff point does not allow for trade offs. For example, a 93% service supplier may be out. And a 94% service supplier may be in, regardless of the price. In other words, the 93% service supplier may be substantially lower in price than the 94% supplier. So is it really worth it, such big price difference for 1% level of service. So we want to do it more methodically. So how do we do it within an optimization framework? So let's go through it. Within the framework that we have used to day, what we do is we modified the prices based on service before the optimization. So we use the optimization, as we'll see in a minute, modified prices rather than the price is submitted by the bidders. Let me give you an example, it is much easier to explain to an American example than talk about it in abstract. So let's say there's a supplier who's bidding on one lane, $500. And this supplier is 97% on time supplier. And let's say the 97% is what we care about in this particular example. There's also another supply who is submitting a lower bid for $475, but he's only 94% on time. The question is, do we choose the high service, high cost supplier? Or the low service, low cost supplier? In order to determine, we have to determine how much level of service is worth. Let's assume that level of service is worth $10 per each 1% of service. Somehow we got into this determination, we found out. We'll talk in a minute how to do it. But we decided that each percent of level of service is worth $10. What we do now, we decide on some baseline. And let's standardize on 94%, even though we can standardize on any other baseline. So let's bring everything to 94%, assuming that each 1% of service is worth $10. So the 94% supplier is already had $475. We don't have to move it. But the 97% supplier bid is modified. We take $30 off because his service is 30% better than the standard service. So we look at this supplier as if his cost is $470. Now we conduct the optimization between the two. And we compare $470 to $475. And of course, the 97% supplier will be chosen. At the end, of course, we don't pay $470. We pay $500. We pay the bid that this supplier gave us. But since we decided that each 1% level of service was worth $10, we should be happy with this choice. Of course, the challenge here is to estimate the value of the level of service. And there is no easy way to do it. Usually, it's done by-- I could call it-- argument. You can call it discussion between sales people, marketing people, operating people, plant people. They all come together. And through this discussion, they have to decide on the value of level of service. So it's something that comes from the outside in the optimization. But once this level is decided, we can conduct optimization. And I'll show you in a minute how. So now we have the following. We have the original bids here, the original table here with the initial values. And here we have this table is the level of service of each carrier on each lane. And this is an auxiliary table that we are creating for the purposes of this optimization. So what do we do here? First of all, we define level of service, so each supply and each item in percent per lane. This is what was done right here. Now we define what a percentage level of service is worth. So using the same example, we decide that each 1% is worth $10. The next step is we define a standard level of service. In this case, because it doesn't matter which one we define. These are all linear, and the result will be the same. But we define a standard level of service as 92, in this case. So now we have to bring each one of these bids up or down to 92. To modify each bid according to the service, relative to the standard. So for example, why is this $450? Because carrier one on a and b is bidding $500. His level of service here is 97%, which means he's 5% better than 92. So we have to take down 50 points, 92 minus 97 times 10, and add the original bid. So we get $450. Why is this bid here $515? He bid $475. But we look at him as $515, because 88 is four points lower than 92. So we have to increase it by 40. We have to increase the $475 by 40 and we get $515. Now we take into the optimization, we do it a little differently. We don't multiply this value by the variables to get the objective function. We multiply this value, these modify prices, by these variables. And this gives us a modified objective function. See, this is the modified objective function that we get after multiplying these variables, these prices, these modified prices, by this. Now we go into the optimization. So the sum product here is l4 m7, which is here, times these eight values. Now we get into the optimization. And we conduct the optimization. Before-- there's actually no constraint here, just a set of modified prices. But something strange is happening here. We get that the objective function here value is lower, lower than the original. Unconstrained it was $19,500, totally unconstrained value. So how come the value now is lower than what we got initially? Well, let's think about it for a minute. What did we do here? We modified the prices. So actually, if we look, this is what we got, by multiplying this times this. But what the carriers will get, and what the company will pay, is not this times this. It's actually the original bids times the value. So the real objective function will be $20,000 here, which is higher than the original one. Because now we used modified prices. So it is different. The sum product-- this was the sum product of the l4 m7. This x value times the variables. While this is the sum product of these, c4 d7 here times the value that we have here. OK, let's go to optimization with item attributes, which is explain what we did here. A service is a supplier item attribute, which means it's tied to specific suppliers and specific lanes. We can associate each type of price or condition with individual item of a given supplier. Many examples of this, for example, supplier can be familiar with a certain name. Supplier can be [INAUDIBLE] readiness on certain lane. He has a certain percentage of damage and wrong delivery on a particular lane. He has on time performance on each lane. These are all lane attributes. They can associate with each lane of each item, separately. As opposed to what we are going to talk about in a minute, which are system attributes rather than item attributes or lane attributes. So let's stop here, and we'll move into the next segment in a minute.
