So now let's talk about reverse supply chains. These are the supply chains that handle that return flow. Most of the work that I'm going to talk about here, most of the material, has been adapted by work materials made by Dr. Eva Ponce. So far we've introduced the SCOR model and we talked about how product flows from suppliers to customers. We have this plan and we source, make, and deliver, and we create this enabling layer that operationalizes it. But everything has been flowing from suppliers to customers. Everything moves downstream. The question is, what happens if things move upstream, if I have things being returned for delivery or returned all the way back to its original source? And this is actually part of the SCOR model, we just haven't talked about it too much. So what kind of things would get returned or why would things get returned? Well, you can think of commercial returns and these are all the things you order and they're the wrong size, the wrong color, it's the wrong style, the shirt makes me look fat-- any reason that the consumer has for sending the product back. It wasn't what they thought it was going to be. You also have warranties and recalls. When a product is seen to be dangerous, they have to recall them out of all of the customer locations-- out of all the retail locations, rather. I might have overstocks or have a poor promotion. I promoted a certain detergent, its way out there and I didn't sell as much, so the retailers might want to flow that back. So it's returning upstream. Leases-- if you're leasing equipment or some material and then it's done, it's got to be returned. So it returns and has a reverse flow. You can also think of defective products. If there's damage, how does that get processed back through? The retailer probably wants credit for that. You can think of a product where it's at end of use or end of life, and they're not the same thing. An end of use means you're done with it. That one consumer is done with it. We all know that one person, we have that one friend who gets a new cell phone every six months. Well, their cell phone, if they turn back in to the network provider, they're not going to throw it away. They're going to resell it to someone else. It's end of use for that consumer. It'll be pushed down to a secondary market for someone else. So that's end of use. End of life is it's done, it's dead. It can't be used again. Think of washing machines when it's broken. So when you're at end of life, there is no future user for it. And then you have this whole category that you might not think about called reusable articles. And let me spend a second on that before we get into the nitty gritty of some of the other types of returns. So reusable articles are these durable products. They're intended to be used by multiple users, multiple times in different locations across supply chain network. And you could really divided into two big categories-- the conveyances and the product themselves. So a conveyance is simply something that a product moves in. And you can think of this on a continuum from a very standardized type of conveyance to a very highly customized or specialized one. And what usually makes it specialized is that it's very close to the product. In fact, the product might be touching it, as opposed to this widely standardized one, it's within secondary and tertiary packaging. So the most widely standardized and generic conveyance is the container. So I've got the standard shipping container-- a 40 foot or a 20 foot or some other standard length. And I'm going to have many, many, many of these out there because it's standardized. Everyone uses the same. Everyone make sure it's standardized because it's easier to pick up. It's nice to have a standard box. So this will distribute between multiple firms and will move across the network. Same can be said for pallets. Again, these are used by multiple users across the whole network. There are companies that actually manage the flow of these pallets through the network. You can think of these plastic totes. A lot of retailers will use these for that last delivery from their DC to their stores. They'll load things into these totes, individual eaches and cases and deliver them that way. And then we go to a standard cart. Same thing. It's a conveyance that the product moves in. Then we get a little more specialized and think of returnable bottles. So the difference between, say, a bottle and a shipping container is the bottle, if it's going to be recycled, has to go back to the same company that made it. You can't take a Budweiser bottle and give it back to Miller bottler. If you're going to reuse the bottles, they have to go back to the same location, and that's what makes it different. The same thing with a propane tank. If I buy propane for my grill or something, I have to send it back to that same provider. Same thing for kegs of beer. Same thing for printer cartridges. So when I replace an Inkjet printer cartridge, I have this cartridge I send back. I can't send it back to a different vendor. It has to go back to that vendor. So the big differences on this continuum between the widely standardized ones, the containers, is that they will have many, many users out there. There will be a large number of those containers out there, versus at this other end, I will only use them within the firm because they have come back to the same company that made them. And there will be fewer of them. So that's the continuum for conveyances. But you also have reusable articles that are the products themselves. Think of a library. The book gets checked out by multiple people over and over again. Same thing with a video library. You think of bike sharing. This is very common in European cities and some US cities, where you actually belong and you can take a bike from one location to another location. And so you're sharing that bike. Multiple people will use it. You can also think about surgical equipment. It's not like they throw out the surgical equipment after they've done a surgery. It gets sterilized and recycled back. It gets used by multiple users multiple times. You can think of wheelchairs as well. So the product can circulate, the conveyance can circulate. The common thing here is that it's now a closed-loop supply chain. Everything we've talked about so far flows downstream, supplier to end customer. Now we have things that come back. And we've already talked about this actually in a previous class. We talked about this when we talked about transportation because transportation has what's known as the balance problem, especially when you're dealing with pallets and containers because they're never where you want them to be. They tend to be where things have been delivered and you need empty ones where you manufacture things. So there's always a rebalance of these different conveyances. The same thing happens for the product if you have a closed-loop supply chain. Because one of the challenges for these bike sharing systems is that the bikes are never where you want them to be. You need to have someone physically go out in a van, collect and reposition them to make sure it's balanced where the supply is going to be where the demand is going to materialize. So anytime you have this closed-loop supply chain, you've got to make sure that the demand and the supply are in sync. And someone needs to manage that. So this is a very special type of reverse flow, because again, it's a closed loop. It's constantly looping through. Next we'll talk about more traditional returns and reverse logistics.
