Now let's add in some of those demand levers, instead of just the operational or supply side levers that we've seen so far. So what I have here is the same problem-- Dire Wolf 2. I've added in pricing. So what I've done here is I've put the price that the unit's sold for in each month. And what this does is changes my objective function. And so what I have-- it's a sum product of the demand each month, column M times the price each month, and then I subtract off the cost. So what I have here is total profit. So if I wanted to optimize this, I would be optimizing this objective function in cell C3, which is the profit. So therefore, I'm going to maximize it. Everything else pretty much stays the same. So the constraints-- the decision variables are still the ones in yellow. So not much has changed. And if I solve this, you'll see that I get the exact same solution that I had if I minimized cost. Now, why would that happen? Well, let's think about it. What have I changed? The only thing I've done is I've added in a price per month, and notice it's the same each month. So my costs are the things I'm going to minimize, because my revenue is pretty much set. So even if I said the price is $200 per, then the solution wouldn't change and the profit would get better. But the solution, itself, wouldn't change, because all we're doing is essentially minimizing the cost, because the revenue is constant. It doesn't matter from month to month. Now, what we're going to do next though is allow the demand side to change some things, and specifically we're going to look at price elasticities. So suppose that sales and marketing can estimate how the demand for these products will change if they change the price. So recall back from your economics days that the elasticity is essentially the change in the quantity as a percentage. That's my delta Q percentage divided by the change in the price as a percentage. So my number could be something-- might change could be a 5% over a 1%, right. So we would say if the price dropped by 1% then this would be saying that my volume would go up by 5%. So my elasticity, in this case, would be negative 5. And so all it's saying is if I drop the price a certain amount, or increase the price, how will the volume change the quantity. So if I just rearrange this, I can set up that Q_new equals q-old times 1 minus the elasticity times the delta of the price as a percentage. Remember delta simply means the change, right. So that would be Q_new minus Q_old over Q_old, right. Same thing for price-- it'd be the price of the new minus price of the old over the price of the old. And so this just standard form. And so all we're doing-- elasticity is pretty straightforward. It's just saying what the change is. And so for an example, in the data that I have, suppose my elasticity is negative 3. Why is it negative? Well, if I drop my price, my volume should go up. Does that make sense? So if it was all in the same direction, it'd be saying that if my price dropped, my volume would drop. And that doesn't make sense. That's very, very rare. So price elasticity with respect to the mean is usually negative. So suppose the elasticity is 3, and in period one my price drops from 180 to 162. That's a 10% decrease. And then I want to figure out what demand is going to do. So I'm just going to use this formula, which is just a restatement of the definition of elasticity. It's going to be the demand old, which is 2,800-- what the base demand is for that month-- times 1 minus, or actually plus, negative 3, that elasticity that I gave you, times negative 0.1. That's a 10% drop, and that gives you 3,640. So a 10% decrease in price increases demand by 30%. And so this is a way that you can use to estimate what the effect of a certain promotion or change in pricing will have on demand. Now, in my spreadsheets, I'm going to keep it simple. All my elasticities-- enter them as positive numbers, because my percent discounts are entering them as positive numbers. I could enter these as negative, enter these as negative. It's the same thing. But just to keep it simple, I'm going to enter these as positive. And I keep a little note here. And this is in the spreadsheet that we've attached for you. I keep a positive since the discount is positive. It has no effect. I could make them both negative. It has the same effect. All right. So what I want to do next-- well, let me show you are having a spreadsheet actually. So let's clean this up just a tad. There we go. So my discounted price in the spreadsheet is simply going to be what the price was, right. The base price in M15 is 180-- times 1 minus N2, and that's the discount in that month. That's this-- 10%. So what I've said here is you can put the discount up here in this N column and it will all ripple through. Now, the elasticity for the monthly demand simply is this equation, right. And I just put into the spreadsheet, and I use an integer function just so I wouldn't have pennies and things. It's just a rounding. So I go to the integer value of that. M2 times 1 plus M16, which is my elasticity, again entered as a positive number, times N2, which is the percent discount change. So all I'm doing is plugging this equation into this cell in column M23 down. So what I have here is now I have a way of tying things in, because what does a promotion do? It's going to increase the demand in that month. What is that going to do? That's going to mean I'm going to have to change some things in my operations. I might have to increase the number of hours, use outsourcing, maybe add more people. So changing the price ripples into the operational side. That's why the S&OP is so important. So we want to use this to determine when should I run promotions, how should I shape the demand, because that's what I'm doing here. I can do a very big discount and shape the demand for that month. How will this impact operations and do they lead to profitability? These are the kind of things we want to do using this very, very simple spreadsheet. So let's do a couple cases. So my first scenario is I'm going to run a promotion in January and February. So what I've done here in this-- I've discounted right up here for January and February, periods one and two. I do a 10%. Everything else is at 0. And so you see that ripple to the price, and that means the demand is going up. Here you should note I have an elasticity of 5, so I'm saying a 1% decrease in price increases the demand by 5% for that month. So I enter this in and then I just optimized it. I'm maximizing what's in cell 3, the profitability. And what do I end up with? Well, if I compare it to the previous one where I didn't have any sale-- promotions-- then I had at the sales volume increased by 13%. That's awesome, right. That make sense that the volume-- that's this total amount-- the amount I sell goes up, because I'm demanding more. That make sense. Revenue went up by 9% if you compare the revenue, what the price is paid for each of the units for each month. But look what happened to profit. Profit went down by 22%. Why? Why would profit go down? Well, look when I'm doing my promotion. The demand there is one of my highest months-- 2,800 in periods one and two. So why would I want to promote more. I'm already using a lot of extra outsourced and overtime hours. I'm just exacerbating things. So running a promotion doesn't always lead to higher profitability. It usually will lead to higher volume, but the question is does it make sense. Let me give you another example. Now I'm running it in periods four and five, April and May. And so what happens, I'm going to optimize it again. My elasticity is still 5 here. And you see that what this does, it ups the volume here in months four and five. So the net effect here is my volume went up 4%-- not that much. Revenue increased a little bit, but my profit increased 2%. And that's just comparing this cell to the previous. Why does this make sense? Well, remember this was dead time. Look at how low those volumes are. And before, I'd have to really either fire people right before that or I would have to do something to really cut my production down, but now I'm able to keep the production a little more steady. So what I've shown in these two simple, simple examples is that by changing the price by the discounts, if I know what the elasticity is or can estimate that, I can estimate what the change in the volume is going to be the demand. And that allows me to find what the optimal solution would be. And so it allows me to see what if sales change, what does operations have to do to make that successful.
