All right. Another pretty intensive lesson here. So hopefully, you're getting a handle on things though, because we only did one thing during this lesson. We used this example of the New England Root Beer Distributors to show how to use network design models to test the different design scenarios. Previous lessons showed us how to build the models, and we played with them, and showed how the optimization worked. Now we apply them. And I tried to show through a very simple example, the three major steps. The first step, collecting the data, which is the most critical step, and the most commonly ignored step. It's the one that people gloss over because it's very hard. But you need to collect data that is representative and makes sense. The data has to be costs and capacities on the transportation arcs and the facilities. We'll talk much more about this in next week's lessons but this is always the hardest part and most time consuming part of any network design. The second thing we did, we built baselines. Why did we build a baseline? We need to make sure that our model closely resembles reality. That's why we use existing flows. A model that doesn't reflect what happens today is useless. No one will believe it in the future. So you have to make sure that the mechanics of the model and the costs of the model represent reality. And it's a great way to test your data. To make sure that the individual components of the data make sense. Make sure that the total costs look reasonable, but also make sure that the different components, the facility cost, the distribution cost, the transportation costs, make sure those buckets are also somewhat reasonable. Then we use the baseline. We optimized that to be able to compare it to the new designs. You don't want to just compare last year's bad execution to a future plan with perfect execution. You have to make it apples to apples, and that's why we created the other baselines. Because we said OK, now let's take away the poor execution because when I do future models, it's going to assume that it's executed perfectly, because we're all perfect in the future. So we need to make sure I'm comparing apples to apples and not apples to my baseline one, which is more like a rotten apple. It has all that bad execution in it. All right. The last thing we did was the fun part, and that's running the scenarios. They are so easy to run. And I showed you how to run them in a spreadsheet. And that's where you have to change cells, and that's pretty complicated. Using sophisticated software, it's very easy. And so, you can spend a lot of time running these. And as you can think about it, you could run a million different scenarios. So you have to think more about what you want to do, and I'll spend more time on this next week to talk about how you might want to run your scenarios, and how you want-- might want to organize them. Because it's very easy to get overwhelmed. But these scenarios are an excellent way to price out potential options. It's not just about getting an answer. The answer is six. Right? It's all about understanding what the recommendation is and using your common sense. Remember, it's an art and a science. We're showing the science, but you need to make sure that art comes in and make sure you-- the solution makes business sense, not just mathematical, optimal sense. But you do have to resist that temptation for analysis paralysis. You could do scenarios forever, I've been engaged in the scenario planning and other optimization based studies where we spent more than six months doing analysis of scenario, after scenario, after scenario. It doesn't necessarily lead to a better result. So you have to guard against that. Just because it's easy to run a million scenarios doesn't mean you need to run a million scenarios. All right. So that's the lesson. I'm excited about it, Wilson's terribly excited about network design. I hope you are too. So chat if you have any questions. Please use the discussion forum and try the practice problems. Get comfortable using the model to do scenario analysis.
