In this segment, we consider yet another figure of merit for investment decisions. I told you there were several. And this one is called the internal rate of return, or IRR. So to motivate the IRR-- which is not so easy to say, is it-- let's consider the previous segment we had, the net present value, when we showed how it's really useful because it considers the time value of money. It's based on relevant cash flows. And it quantifies the value being created. So these are some good attributes for a figure of merit. But it's dependent on picking the right discount rate. So are investors expecting 10% or 11%? And it may not be easy to determine exactly what their expectations are. Though we can get an indication of what they expect, to determine for all of our investors what they exactly expect and pick a precise value is really difficult. So instead, it might be nice if we could determine the range of rates that make the investment worthwhile. And therefore, if we can say that our investors' expectations safely fall within that range, then we feel comfortable moving forward with the investment. And that's exactly what we're trying to do with the internal rate of return, or IRR. So this figure of merit, IRR, is the discount rate that gives the net present value equal to 0. So it's the rate you'd plug-in to get an NPV equal to 0. Let's draw a little example here to illustrate this. So if we have our discount rate-- and it looks like this doughnut, doesn't it? Discount rate. You can't read my writing very well. But you know what I'm saying there, discount rate on the x-axis. And we have our NPV, NPV, net present value on the y-axis. For low discount rates, the net present value will be higher for a given set of cash flows. So the lower the rate, the higher the value of NPV. And it would go something like this, that it would go down over time, as long as we're making a traditional investment of up-front money and then future cash flows that are positive. So the point at which the net present value-- this is 0. So the point at which it crosses 0, this is our IRR, internal rate of return. Now, remember that for a net present value greater than 0, so for anything above 0, we would invest. So therefore, anything between a rate of 0 and IRR in this range, as long as our target rate of return is in that range, then we would invest in that. We would make that investment for the cash flows that, given their present value that's positive, between 0 and IRR. For any target rate that's above the IRR, we would have a negative net present value. Therefore, we would not invest. So this basically gives us our criteria for acceptance, given the IRR, or figure of merit. And that is, we should invest if the IRR is greater than the target rate of return. Or in other words, as long as the target rate of return falls between 0 and IRR, then we would make the investment and feel comfortable doing that. So to calculate this IRR-- I keep saying that. It's kind of tough to say-- we would set net present value equal to 0. So net present value is again this formula. We would plug IRR in as our variable and solve for IRR to figure out what rate gives us a net present value of 0. Now, this looks pretty complicated. And in fact, it is. To solve for IRR in this equation is not straightforward because there's no algebraic formula. There's no closed form equation, no algebraic formula, that we can use to determine IRR. We can't just plug values in, and it will give us a value of IRR. So instead, we will rely-- fortunately, the spreadsheets we use have a function that will calculate this for us using an algorithm or an iterative technique. So it will try different values, different rates, and determine the one that actually gets closest to the net present value equal to 0. And Excel claims to be accurate, that this algorithm is accurate within 0.00001%. That's very accurate, very accurate for our purposes of determining a range of returns that are acceptable for our investors. So we will rely on this algorithm, this spreadsheet function, to calculate the IRR for us. So the technique that is used, it requires a starting value to start the algorithm. Excel uses 0.1, or 10%, which is a fairly common general discount rate. And it tries 20 different values to start with. And if it can't find through it's technique a solution where the net present value equals 0, it will give you this NUM! Error. So if you get that, don't worry. You can still try something else. And that is you can give it a guess. Maybe your IRR is actually very high. And it just didn't go high enough or low enough. So you can give it a guess. Or if you get a result that seems strange, you might want to provide a guess. So the way you would actually type it into your spreadsheet is the function name is IRR. You give it a range of cells. And you can-- it's not required, so I have it in italics here. But you can give it a guess for a rate that you think is close. And in fact, picking an approximate rate of return that your investors would expect as a target is a good place to start with. So you would actually type it in. You would give it a cell range. You might give it a guess. Note that unlike NPV, we actually include the period zero cash flow in our range of cells. So the net present value, remember, it assumed that the cash flows happened at the end of the period. Therefore, we had to add in period zero separately. But internal rate of return, since it needs to incorporate all the investments in its calculation, it allows you, and in fact, it requires you to include period zero cash flows in your range of cells. So let's illustrate this using the two examples we used with NPV. I've colored the cash flows so I can refer to them-- blue and green here. And remember, the blue ones, with the higher magnitude coming a little later, at a 10% discount rate had a higher NPV of 32.1. So that created more value, even though they both created positive value and are good investments. Let's calculate the IRR now. And note that this time, we include the period zero. So we include all of these cells. And it's a simple formula. You just type those cells as the argument for the function IRR. And it gives you the internal rate of return of 16.5. Now, 16.5 is higher than 10. We would expect that, remember? Because the IRR is where NPV becomes o and starts going negative. Since it's positive at 10%, we would expect IRR to be higher than 10%. And we can see that we can safely invest in this. Even if our investors would expect up to 15, 16, or close to 16.5%, we would still be safe making this investment. What's the IRR for the bottom one? What's the range of values for which we feel safe investing here? And again, we type in that range of cells. This time its row seven, but the same columns. And we get a value of 16.5. So that's interesting. For the same range of values, we would invest in both. And both of them become unattractive above the same higher rate. Even though the NPV at 10% is different. So what's happening here? Well, I find it's often useful when thinking about IRR to also plot the net present value for various rates. And you can then clearly see where the IRR is. Where the NPV is equal to 0, that's the internal rate of return. And we can see that they both cross at 16.5. But beyond this rate here, we would not invest. Anything down here, we would invest, and including our target. Our target is here at 10%, right? At 10%, we would invest. It's lower than the IRR. And the NPV gives us additional information that at our target, this blue set of cash flows gives us a higher value of 32.1, compared with 24.6. So we can say which one's better, given a target rate of return. But remember, they both make the same decision that these are both attractive investments. And you should do both if you can. Now, we may be tempted, when we need to, when we can't invest in everything we want, to rank investments. And so you may want to consider, should I use NPV or IRR when making an investment ranking and when I'm trying to determine which one creates most value. So I kept the same values in the top here. If you go back, you can see that the same value is in the top. But on the bottom, instead of having a set of cash flows over time that declines, I instead say, let's have a 0 for three years and then a big payout here at the end. So I've changed the bottom cash flow. And note that the values at the top are the same. But with this big payout, much bigger magnitude payout, coming later, it actually creates more value. NPV is higher at 10% than in the original blue one, even though the IRR is lower. If you were to rank it based on IRR, the higher percent being better, you would pick the blue as being more valuable. So what's going on here? If we plot these again-- it's always useful to plot the NPV for different values-- we can see that the internal rate of return is higher here for the blue one than the green one because the green one has a steeper slope. So the IRR is lower here. Although, that steeper slope also means that at our target of 10%, it creates more value. So if we had to rank and pick them, assuming that our discount rate and our expected rate from our investors is 10%, we would pick the green one. But remember, both of these are good investments at 10%. We should do both if we can. But the IRR and the NPV may give different rankings, if you use the values. And if that's the case and you need to rank projects, then always you should pick a discount rate and use the net present value, because it calculates the actual value being created for investors at a given expectation of the discount rate. If you wanted to determine the point at which the trade off happens-- it's kind of hard to read this here-- what you do, this point here is actually 12.5, at which one project becomes more favorable. So in that range of 12.5 to 16.5, the blue is actually preferable to the green. To calculate that point, it's kind of a subtle thing, b you would take the difference in the two cash flows. So let's say take the green ones minus the blue ones. And we get that it's 50 less in period one, 75 less in periods two and three. And then it's that big payout, 250 more in period four. The internal rate of return of those cash flows is 12.4%. That actually gives us that point at which the one becomes preferable over the other. So that's a subtle point if you want to determine the ranges for which each project is preferred. So now, let's use IRR to make a decision with the example we've been using this far. That's to Plata Solar investment in automation equipment. And here's our free cash flows. Again, the same as before. And in this case, we don't need to assume a discount rate. We don't have to make an assumption of a discount rate to calculate the NPV, although it's good to remember that the target rate of return for investors is 15%. So let's see the range for which we feel comfortable making this investment. Well, if we calculate the IRR of these values down here, that gives us an IRR of 10.2%. That's less than 15%. And that's pretty far from our target rate of return. So 10% is a lot less than 15. So we probably are not going to feel comfortable making this investment, given the expectations of our investors. And again, that agrees with the decision we had before. The NPV at 15% is negative. We shouldn't invest. But now it tells us we can't even be comfortable because it's 5% different than the expectations. So that's not a very good investment. So we see the IRR is a very viable figure of merit. It's similar to NPV. Same advantages, but it gives us an additional advantage of not having to pick a discount rate. Instead, we can see the range of rates for which this is attractive and see if our investors would feel comfortable with making this investment. However, it is not as effective for ranking among good projects. If you can't pursue all of the good projects and you need to rank them, you wouldn't want to use the IRR value because it can distort the value creation around the target rate of return that your investors expect. So it's better, if you're trying to rank projects, to use net present value with an assumption of a discount rate. In addition, we didn't talk about this in detail, but with some cash flows, you may not get an IRR for a certain really good investments. The net present value may not even reach 0. Or for really bad ones, it may not go above 0. And for some funky cash flows where they mix signs going positive, negative, positive, negative, you can actually have the net present value equal 0 for several different values. I didn't go into those specific examples. But know that that can happen. And you can always safely make an investment decision based on net present value, assuming a discount rate. So NPV and IRR are the fundamental discounted cash flow analysis techniques that we've considered. Oops, my slide went forward here. So we've now covered the bulk of the discounted cash flow analysis techniques. Those of you who have seen our Plata Solar example may be wondering, is there a possible way we can find to invest in that automation equipment. Let's say you were working for the company and you really want to invest in this equipment. How can we do that? Well, remember in the previous lesson, I talked about how working capital can make or break your initiative. Well, let's think again as supply chain professionals here, how can we think about this investment in a broader context. And in fact, by investing in the automation equipment, not only do we reduce the set up cost. But we could probably reduce the set up time. If it's lower set up time, that means we need less buffer stock throughout our production process. Therefore, lower work in process inventory. So assuming we can reduce inventory by $10,000 in this example, let's plug this in to our free cash flow projections. And these are all the same up here. These are the same. But we're now saying we have an additional decrease in inventory. So the reduction in inventory, which becomes a positive cash flow when you subtract it. So that means our $30,000 investment becomes $20,000. So we reduced our up front because we freed up the capital from that inventory reduction. I did add it in at the end here because assuming that our equipment is no longer useful at the end of year three-- which we had to assume that it's not useful at the end of year three-- and its salvage value is 0, then we would have to buy more equipment to keep that inventory reduction. That's a future decision. So I'm going to assume we would make that in the future. And instead, assume that we would return back to the status quo. And therefore, inventory would go up if we did not further invest in more equipment. But let's see if that inventory reduction up front-- which reduces our upfront cost, but also-- 20,000 is less than the 30,000 before, but also reduces our future one. Is that earlier cash flow going to make a difference? So again, plugging in the NPV for 1.5: 15. 15% is the investor's expectations. Years one and two are the same. Year three is lower. But our upfront investment is also lower. And the result gives us-- let's hear a little drum roll-- a positive 1,052. So we would actually invest. So this demonstrates that working capital is an important thing to consider in your supply chain designs. It can make or break your decisions here. And it also illustrates the value of cash earlier versus later. Here, the cash is freed up in year zero immediately in return for having to invest again further in year three. But it's better to free up that $10,000 for three years. It really makes this initiative worthwhile.
