CONNOR MAKOWSKI: Hi there. Welcome to the Blinky problem part five. My name is Connor Makowski, and in this part of the Blinky problem, we are going to expand the model a little further to consider two dcs at the same time with different fixed costs. So you can see over here on the right-hand side, we have our problem statement, or what's going on in our problem. And the idea is we're considering a new dc. We can see that our current dc will have a different fixed cost than our-- so that's DC1, as well as what's going to be coming up to be like a new potential dc, which is DC2. You can see some of these things are represented already in our problem four data. So I'm going to go ahead and change this over here to problem five and we can get going on this. So let's go ahead and start thinking about what we want to do with our data. We want to incorporate our fixed cost and we also want to add some more items to our transportation matrix so we can see what's actually happening in that transportation matrix. Now it turns out this transportation matrix, or this dc, can have everything flying from assembly plant one and assembly plant two to this dc, as well as from this dc to each one of the three regions. So I'm going to go ahead and actually copy-- we already have this exact same structure in our transportation matrix for DC1. Let me go ahead and create-- copy these and paste it, and we can use this for DC2. So from A1 to DC1, that would be the first one in this new matrix. From A1 to DC2, that's going to be 15 miles. So we'll go ahead and say 15, 1-5. And then from assembly plant two to DC2, sum from A2 to DC2, that's going to go ahead and be 36 miles. So we're going to make a quick edit here to add 36 miles. And then from DC2 to R1, so to region one, is 135 miles, 1-3-5. And from DC2 to R2, that's going to be 45 miles, 4-5. And finally to region three is going to be 129 miles. And then the cost, it should still be-- inbound to the dc is $0.04, and outbound from the dc to the region is $0.08. So I think we're all good to go on that. I think we've got our transportation matrix set up. So all we did was take our initial matrix, we copied it, and we put it down. We made some edits so we could add in our new dc items. So let's go ahead down and look through our matrices again, start looking at what we've got here. So we've got our demand matrix. Our demand has not changed. Our assembly limitations also have not changed. But our distribution center now actually has some fixed costs. So we'll go ahead and we'll add those here. So I'm going to edit my DC1 to add a fixed cost. I'm going to go ahead and just call that fixed F-I-X-E-D underscore C-O-S-T, my fixed_cost. And that's going to go ahead and be the fixed_cost of 11,500, 1-1-5-0-0. I'm going to go ahead and just copy this, paste it right below, and we'll change it for our DC2. And DC2 is going to have a fixed_cost of 15,500, 1-5-5-0-0. So now we actually have adjusted our matrices and I think right now, we've included all of the data that we actually need in a matrix format. I'm going to go ahead and hit Run here. Let's continue thinking about our model. For t in transport, let's see if this all make sense still. The amount we're transporting is going to be a variable, and that's going to be from our origin to our destination. Yep, that all still makes sense. The total, or the cost for each item in our transportation matrix will still be our distance times our cost per mile. Yep, that all still makes sense. So it looks like we are good to run that cell. And finally, we'll go on down here and we will start thinking about our model. So instead of having Blinky P4, let's go ahead and call this Blinky22P5. We are still minimizing our model. Let's think about our objective function. Has our objective function changed? Actually, yes, it has. We're adjusting our model to consider the newly available information. We are going to minimize the total fixed and variable cost. So right now, this is just our variable cost. So we need to actually add in our fixed_cost. So we're going to say we have the model sum of the amount we have times the cost for t in transport plus some new variable that we are going to have. So it might be-- this is actually going to be from our distribution center matrix. So let's go ahead and say dc and maybe we'll call that something like use, whether or not we're using it, or opening this distribution center. So dc use times go ahead and say dc-- we're going to call that the fixed_cost times dc fixed_cost, F-I-X-E-D, dc fixed_cost for dc in distribution center. So I'm going to copy that, for dc in distribution center. So that is a little bit confusing. Let's go ahead and break that down just a little bit. I'm going to go ahead and add some parentheses here just so we can keep track of what's going on from a Pythonic standpoint, so in the lines. I'm going to go ahead and add a closing bracket here, or closing, I guess, closing parentheses. So what we have here is our first part, is our variable cost. And then the second part is actually going to be our fixed_cost for dc in distribution center. Now one of the things we seem to be missing is we don't actually have a way to determine if we're using our distribution center. So just like we do for our transportation matrix, let's go ahead and we'll add a new code cell below our transportation matrix and we'll say for dc in distribution_center, and we're going to say-- we're going to go ahead and create a use variable. So we're going to create a variable whether or not we want to actually use. So this is a decision variable whether or not we want to use this dc. And that's what we're going to use to enforce our fixed costs. So right now, we're just creating a variable that we can use to choose from. So in this case, let's go ahead and say dc bracket use, and that's going to actually equal a model variable. So let's go ahead we'll just copy this line for now. It's going to equal model.variable. That name is actually just going to be our dc name. Maybe we'll just do underscore underscore use. So whether or not this dc is called-- this is what our variable is going to be called, is the dc name. So DC1 underscore underscore use. Let's go ahead and we'll get rid of our low bound because there's not really a low bound. This actually needs to be a binary variable. Whether or not it's on or off is just a yes or no. There is no in between. So I'm actually going to use a part of this model variable. And again, this is in the documentation, but I'm going to use this, and I'm going to use the cat, so the category. Cat equals, and let's see if we get some help from Google Colab here. Doesn't appear to be popping up, but I know what we can use here. It's going to be cat binary, B-I-N-A-R-Y. So model.variable. The name here is whether or not we're using it. And finally, the category is binary. So this is a binary variable. It can only be 0 or 1. So I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to run that. And so this is just a binary variable we can use to enforce that this distribution center is either open or closed, or if it's in use or it's not in use. So now that we've done that, that should be accessible within our distribution center. And since we haven't run this cell yet, that's fine. So we can say dc use, that variable we just created, times our dc fixed_cost, which is what we have up here for dc in distribution center. So it looks like we should be good, that we've properly added our objective function to now include those fixed_costs as well as those variable costs. But what do we need to do now in order to enforce this as I could only ship products through my dc if I'm using my dc? So let's go ahead and we'll look through our constraints and make sure those all still make sense. This shouldn't change our demand, so that's good. It won't change our assembly. It might change our distribution center processes. But since this is a conservation_of_flow, we just need to make sure that everything going in is the same as it's going out. We shouldn't actually change that. We still need to have that enforced. So we're going to go ahead we're going to create a new constraint we'll call that a linking_constraint. And this linking_constraint essentially is going to say for these items in my distribution center, I want to go ahead and add a constraint that determines only if it's on can I ship products through it. And so I'm going to go ahead and say, again, for dc in-- for dc in distribution center, and then in that, I'm going to say my_model.add_constraint, and that is going to have the name of an f string, just like normal. Oops, name equals f string. And let's go ahead and just call that dc name linking_constraint. So we'll just copy this f string from up here and we'll say dc name and we'll call this linking_constraint, R-A-I-N-T, linking_constraint. I'll add a comma, and then we'll go ahead and add what our function is going to be, fn equals, and we'll fill that function out here in a second. So for each dc in our distribution center, we want to add a constraint that forces that. So how can we do that? Let's go ahead and say this function is going to be the M-O-D-E-L.sum, so the model.sum, just like we normally do. And that model.sum is going to have to be less than or equal to some M variable, so some sufficiently large number that we'll define here in a minute, times whether or not we're going to use the dc. So dc bracket use. So what we're saying is the sum of whatever we put in here, whatever goes into our dc, or whatever leaves our dc, has to be less than some large number times the fact that we're either using or not using this dc. So what is this large number? It's just some number large enough. Some people say it's 10 times the largest number in your problem or some other thing. I would typically argue it should be the largest number that your optimization package supports. But for simplicity, we'll go ahead and we'll just say 999,999. We'll just say that should be sufficient. We're familiar enough with our problem. The amount of flows that we'll have that we should be good here, especially considering our demand levels. So the sum of this model-- or sorry, model.sum, so we're going to have to calculate what this is going to be. What is that going to be? That's actually going to be sum of the flows that are either going into our dc or leaving our dc. Since we're enforcing the conservation_of_flow, it can either be the things going in our dc or the things leaving our dc. If, for example, we say it's the things leaving our dc, then essentially we're saying only if it's on can things leave our dc and this conservation_of_flow constraint above will force it that nothing can go in. And the other way around, if we say nothing can go in, this conservation_of_flow just says that nothing can go out. And so we can just choose one of these items. So I'll just say this one. Looks like this is our destination name, so that'd be inflows to our dc. And only if the sum of all inflows to our dc-- the sum of all inflows to our dc, sorry, must be less than or equal to this m value times the fact that our dc is on. So we've created a successful linking_constraint here. And we can go ahead and we'll run this. Let's see what happens and let's see if our formulation below makes sense. So I'm going to run this show formulation again. And we'll go through and we'll look through our processes here. We can see that we're still minimizing our larger cost function, just like we used to. We still are meeting all of our demand. And you'll notice here that we're actually flowing from each dc to each-- sorry, to each region. So everything that flows into region three from each dc has to be greater than or equal to, again, that total demand in region three. The same thing with our assembly supply that flows just like it used to. We have our conservation_of_flow, but we're going to create one of those per dc. So we'll have a conservation_of_flow for DC1 and our conservation_of_flow for DC2. And that should work just like it did in the previous part of this problem. Now the thing that's new here, again, is this linking_constraint. And what we're saying is everything that flows from, in this case, our assembly plant one to our DC1, as well as our assembly plant two to DC1, anything that flows into DC1 minus 99,999 times the fact that we're using the dc has to be less than or equal to 0. So what we're saying is we can only do this, we can only put items in there, if this dc is on. So that looks good as well. Again, that's just moving everything over to a 0 so we have all of our variables on the left-hand side of this function. And again, that's something that coin, or pulp does in the background when we compile this function here, or when we compile this formulation. So what're we going to do? We actually want to look at our outputs now that we think this is proper and correct. I'm going to go ahead and run this. So my model.show_outputs, that looks pretty good. And you'll notice we have some new variables here. We actually have whether or not we're using our dc. So it looks like we choose not to use DC1 but instead choose to use DC2. You can see the amount of flows that we have coming out of DC2. So you can see we don't have anything that flows through DC1. We only have items that flow through DC2. So everything flows from assembly plant one to DC2. And finally from DC2 to each of our regions that satisfies all of our demand. So it looks like we've enforced our constraint properly, and we should be good to go. So what is our new total cost? Our new total cost is actually going to be $98,262.32. I'm going to go ahead and copy that. We'll go over here and we will go ahead and submit that down here. What is the minimum total cost? I'm going to go ahead and say our minimum total cost. And which dc are we recommending? In this case, we are recommending DC2, remember? DC2 uses that. So I'm going to type in DC2. Go ahead and submit that. We'll see if we got it right. It looks like we are indeed correct, and that we are, in fact computing this correctly. Now again, let's go up and reiterate some of the things we've done. In this problem, we started out and we updated our distance matrix to include all of our distances going into our DC2. We then went ahead and updated our distribution center matrix to include our new DC2, as well as fixed_cost for each dc. We created a variable for each distribution center, whether or not we wanted to use it. And then we updated our objective function to say whether or not we used that variable times the fixed_cost we are going to use. And finally, we added a linking_constraint such that we can only ship the amount of products either into or out of our distribution center if that distribution center is on or is being used. And so we have successfully solved this problem and we should be good to go. I do thank you very much for your time as we move through these Blinky22 problems. Thank you.
