Hi, everybody. This is Yossi Sheffi. In this lesson, we'll talk about procurement optimization. When buying products or services, companies are trying to make sure that they'll get the best deal. The question is, what constitutes best? Usually, it's the lowest cost. So let's talk about lowest cost in terms of best. But this means that the auctioneers choice of winner involves an optimization trying to get this best deal. However, in real life, the questions are much more complicated. Companies are trying to fulfill not only one objective like lowest cost, but in many cases, are trying to get the best service, and even they try to fulfill other objectives, such as social goals. And we'll talk about this. Throughout this lesson we'll talk about various conditions on the optimization, or on the choice, of the winning suppliers for various parts of the business. One of the characteristics of multiple item procurement, which in many cases companies are conducting multiple items at the once, is that the controlling economics could economies of scope, not economies of scale. What does it mean, economies of scope? The costs of the supplier are lower if it can provide several related items. For example, if the same supplier can provide us the navigation system and the radio, then its costs may be lower. And if we evaluate the radio suppliers and the navigation system suppliers separately, we may not take advantage of it. So in the last part of the lesson, we will explain how to conduct the bundled, or combinatorial, procurement auctions, and take advantage of such economies of scope when we can get a better price if we let the supplier provide us some related items. So let's start with this lesson. As I mentioned before, we'll talk about several conditions. We'll start with simple auctions. Then we will deal with capacity constraint. Then we will deal with various other constraint on the supplier. We'll deal with minimum volume requirements. We'll deal with volume discounts that a supplier offers. And we'll deal with combinatorial auction. These are the type of auction that take into account economies of scope. So recall the basic process of auction. Every procurement is an auction. And the procurement team usually estimate the requirement for the next performance period, maybe yeah, maybe two year, or maybe the life of the next model. And then their requirements are communicated to the supplier, to the bidder, usually at some supply conference or by email. And each suppliers then submits a bid. In this case, we're talking about first price sale bid auctions. In most procurement auctions, one does not conduct English auctions with many, many rounds, because it is complicated. There are many, many items, and we don't want to sell each item separately. We don't want to buy each item separately. So by and large, we do a first prize sale bid auction. And you'll see later why it's the right type of auction for procurement. In some cases, when the items are bought are separate, and there are many suppliers in a simple option, in that case, some companies have conducted internet-based, English-type auctions, when the prices go down, down, down. And suppliers are bidding on this. General Electric is famous for this. But in most procurement auctions, one use first pricing sale bid auctions. The procurement team looks, of course, at all the envelope, and chooses the bidder which is the best. Let's talk about an example which we will carry throughout this lesson. This is an example of procurement for transportation services. So what we have here is a simple network with four lanes, four origin destination pair, a to b, b to c, c back to b, and c to a. And we have two carriers bidding on it. So here are the bids. This is carrier one. And this is carrier two. And these are the various lanes. So carrier one from a to b is bidding $500. And carry two, form a to b, is b bidding $525. Now, this is a very simple situation. You can just look at it and see which carrier is winning what because we're looking here only at the lowest possible cost. But we will add hear something that will allow us to use it in a spreadsheet. What we will add here are the decision variable. So what we have here, inside these cells, are eight values which are simply the number of loads that carrier will carry on each lane. So we start with 10, just a starting value. It doesn't matter what we start with. This is the number of loads per week, let's assume, that each carrier will get. But we'll have later on a requirement that the sum of every row would be only 10. We don't have more than 10 loads on each lane. So the optimization will have to allocate the number of loads between the carriers, so that on each lane we'll have only 10 loads. This is done with a spreadsheet. And this is the spreadsheet. And what we have here are the decision variables, and the-- excuse me-- the prices, and the decision variable. This 40 is simply the sum of all the cost. So it's 500 times 10. 500 times 10. 500 times this 10. 475 times this 10. It's basically the multiplication of all these eight by the corresponding decision variables. So as I mentioned before, this is the sum of each row. So this is c11 to d11, c11 plus d11, basically. This is the sum of all the columns. So this is, then, total number of loads that carrier two is getting, in this case, is the sum along the column. And this is so-called the sum product, is the c3 to d6, which is these eight values times these eight values. And what we do here, we use the solver, the spreadsheet solver, in order to optimize here. And if we get to the solver, we use the data entry at the spreadsheet. And we get to the solver. And this is what the optimization looks at. And this is the solver screen. What we have here is the following. We optimize c19, which is the total cost. We're trying to minimize the total cost. So this is the first one. c19 is the objective, and we try to minimize the total cost, subject to certain constraint. So these are the decision variables. So we try to change these decision variables so that the total cost will be minimized and all these constraints will be met. So the total cost has to be-- this is the total cost has to be minimized by changing these variables and dealing with all of these constraints. And these constraints are-- the first one-- that each one of these entries, each one of these decision variables, is greater than zero, and has to be integer. We don't want to have 1.7 trucks. And the sum of every row is 10. So e12 to e15, which is each one of these variables, which is the sum of the row, equal 10. When we're done, we hit solve. And we get the solution for this simple case. The solution is that the minimum is $19,500. And we see that, as expected, the optimization allocated the loads to the least expensive carrier. So carrier two, because it offered $475 on b to c, as opposed to $500 that carrier one offered, got 10. But in every other lane, in every other origin destination pair, it said the higher cost of the optimization didn't assign anything to it. So this was, basically, what we did. We had to minimize the sum product, subject to integrality, non-negativity, and the sum of every row here equal to 10. And we look at the solution, and we see that the constraint was met. The sum is actually 10. And we get the solution, which is $19,500. This is what the solution look like. Carrier one got this lane, the a to b, got c to b, and c to a. And carrier two got b to c. This was the result of the optimizations. So let me stop here. And we'll talk to you again during the next segment.
