In this segment, we will talk about mapping the buy. What do we mean by mapping the buy? What we mean is dividing the buy, dividing the item that we're buying, into certain categories. And then we treat these categories differently. So let's go first through several examples of what it is that we are buying. So let's talk about an automotive company, and assume that they buy several things. So for example, they buy wipers. There are many suppliers of wipers, and they don't spend too much money on wipers. They also buy tires for each car. And four tires, five tires actually per car, costs money. So they spend a lot of money on tires. There are a lot of suppliers of tires, but dealer's spending a lot of money on it. They also buy electronic components and chips. And here it's different. There are not too many suppliers, and chips may be specialty made, specially made for automotive applications. They may also buy navigation system. And this is again different because navigation systems are something that the customers, the driver sees as part of feel of the car. So it's part of the competitive advantage of the car company. So it's a very important buy. By and large, when we look at each segment, we look at how many we buy, how much does it cost, how unique is the part. Is it something that can be easily replaced? And how many suppliers are there who can provide this part? Let's look at another example of fast food in this case. Let's look at somebody like McDonald's. They buy a few apples for those children who want a healthy Happy Meal. They also buy a lot of potato because everybody wants French fries. They also buy self-service machines that people can order and buy their own food. These are specialty made, and there are not too many suppliers. And they also buy fish from actually a single supplier in Massachusetts. The fish that goes into fish filet is a very important product because it's part of the taste and the texture of the product. So it's part of what the customer actually experiences when they buy a fish filet burger. Again, we look at how much we buy, how many we buy. So we buy few apples but a lot of potatoes. How much does each one of them cost? How unique is the part? Is there something special about a supplier of apples or potato? Well, not really. But a supplier of fish filet, of course, is very important and very unique. And how many suppliers are there? Can you just go in the marketplace and find just any supplier? Finally, let's talk about buying computers. So you can think about part of the computer is the packaging. It's not a very complicated buy. There are many suppliers, and it can easily replaced it. You can buy keyboards. You spend more money on keyboard than you spend on packaging, and you buy a lot of keyboard. There's one for every computer. But there are many suppliers of keyboards. A computer company may also buy robotic manufacturing system. These are very complex system. There are not too many suppliers, and they're specialty made for each company. And they also buy chips. And these chips are very important because, like we mentioned before, these impact the customer experience. The chip determines how fast the computer is, how much stuff it can hold in memory, lots of other things. So again, these are important buys. So we look in each one of the segments in order to classify the buy, we look at how many of each item we buy, how much does it cost, how unique is the party, and how many suppliers. So given these examples, we can map the buy, map the procurement of all items on two dimensions. The first one is the risk slash impact, and it goes from low to high. And the other axis is the annual spend, how much we spend in total on an item. When we think about simple market, that's low risk and low impact, there are many suppliers, easily exchangeable, a lot of capacity in the marketplace. The specifications are standard. Nothing is unique. And it's easy to substitute. When we talk about complex market, we talk about few suppliers. There's not much capacity in the marketplace. The specifications are very unique to our needs, and there are no easy substitutes. Now, when you have lots of things to buy, you may want to classify them and see where they fit and treat them accordingly. So let's now name some of these quadrants. So we usually refer to them as tactical, leverage, critical, and strategic. In the tactical quadrant, we put common items. These are items that we don't spend too much money on, and actually they're not that important. The risk is not high. There are always many suppliers. Leverage is where there are many suppliers. It's not a complex buy, but we spend a lot of money there. So we have to pay attention to this because there are a lot of opportunity to save money. The critical buy is where there are potential problems, because it's a complex market, there are not too many substitutes, we don't spend a lot of money on it, so we don't have a lot of leverage with the supplier. The strategic buy are things that give us competitive edge. We spend a lot of money. It's a high impact, high risk, but these are the things that the customer may see and they distinguish our product from others.
