OK. In this lesson, we're going to talk about practical considerations in supply chain network design. This is going to be a relatively short lesson. You've earned that after the last four lessons. They've been rather long. And we've covered a lot of material-- mainly mathematical material, so you understand the underpinnings of supply chain network design models. But now, we want to get to the bigger picture. So how do supply chain network design models fit into this larger picture of supply chain modeling and supply chain solutions? Well, you can think of it in terms of the problem that's being solved. And the range of problems that are solved in the supply chain start at the transactional level. Things that happen every day for every order, every shipment. These are the transactions. It goes up to the operational or tactical level. These are decisions that are made maybe every day, week, or month, in that tactical frame, And then, there's strategic decisions. These are made once every couple of years. So at the transactional level, you've got systems like the ERP system, the Enterprise Resource Planning system. This is the system that most companies use to handle the daily transactions of orders, shipments, inventory management, those kind of things as they process through the company. They interface with warehouse management systems that specifically know where items are stored, how to pick, pack, and ship those, and to keep that whole system under control. And transportation management-- the decisions that are made for which transportation providers should carry which shipment to which location. Then, we move up to tactical and operational decisions. And you have things like sourcing and production planning. We will talk about both of these topics later in this course. Also, demand, deployment, and inventory planning. How much inventory I stock in what form where. This is all a tactical operational decision. And then transportation master planning. How do I set up my smaller fleets, my drop lots, my pool points? Things like that that take a little more time to set up and aren't transactionally based. But then, at the top of all this, is your supply chain strategy, but also your network design. The network design is something that's done maybe once a year, every couple of years. Although there are some companies that continuously look at it. And they're constantly looking at their network design. They don't necessarily implement changes, because the changes to your network design are opening facilities, changing major flows. These are big decisions. Now, you can look at the impact or the return on assets as increasing. The transactional things, these are transactional. They happen every day, every hour. Strategically, if I set up a new way of distributing product, that can have a huge impact. So the impact increases dramatically as I move from transactional to strategic. And that's why we spend so much time on network design. Usually, network design is part of a larger initiative, though. So when do we usually do these? When do firms engage in these initiatives? Well, they're expanding into new geographic markets. They want to see how to support those they want to make sure if they introduce new products, how should they introduce those new products or new services? For example, as Amazon is moving to same-day delivery, they're changing the way their network is set up. They're moving more DC's closer to larger urban areas so they can make that last mile delivery same-day. It's introducing a new service. Shifts in cost structures, other changes in customer expectations. Same type of thing. People are expecting same-day delivery. So you're seeing a lot of retailers shifting to this- to more, smaller DC's closer to urban areas. Mergers and acquisitions- When two companies come together, one of the major areas of synergies are the supply chain. Maybe they can consolidate distribution centers. Maybe they can service the same customers out of different areas. So there's a lot of network change when I have a merger or an acquisition or divestiture, if I get rid of a piece of a company. And then, as capacity constraints change- If I'm growing and I'm hitting capacity constraints, usually you want to look and say, OK, where should I add this capacity? We're usually answering larger questions. The basic one that we talked about the last several lessons is, how should we set up our infrastructure to drive cost and service objectives, minimize cost subject to a service objective, or maximize service subject to a cost? Think of the objective function in the constraints. A lot of times, it's all about how many unique supply chains should we have? You might have different supply chains serving different customer segments. So how should you set those up? And how can you ensure that your supply chains perform on an ongoing basis, that they're still going to be successful. At the end of the day, the supply chain design-- the designs, I should say-- should align with and support the overall business strategy. It's not done in isolation. It's supporting the overall business strategy. So think back to the discussion we had with Marshall Fisher's two-by-two framework, where efficient versus innovative products, and how they match different supply chains. So you will have many supply chains within your company. Think about how they all support your overall business strategy. Now, what I want to do for the rest of this lesson is cover just four big points. And these are four considerations or suggestions. I'm not going to call them commandments. The first one is know thy project. Make sure you understand what it is you're doing, who you're doing it for, what the objectives are, and what the real problem is. Focus on the problem itself. This is: how do I narrow down and solve the real problem at hand, and get rid of the trivial things that can bog a project down? The idea of being very experimental. This is a chance to really try different things. And then, finally, separate the math from the decision, because they're two very different things. Again, we spent a lot of time on the math. The math is important. It offers a lot of opportunity for us to make decisions and tradeoffs. However, the final decision is not made by a mathematical model. It's made by a person.
