Before I dive into the specifics of determining the relevant cash flows, we're going to do a quick review of corporate finance to make sure we're using common terminology. And also, introduce the financial statements again to provide a framework for us to consolidate these cash flows. So the financial statements we're going to use going forward to consolidate all the relevant cash flows are the balance sheet and the income statement. You may be familiar with these, but I want to go through again quickly to make sure we're using the common terminology, and to also highlight which aspects of the balance sheet and income statement we're going to be considering. So the balance sheet is a snapshot of the firm's value at any given time. It consists of assets, liabilities, and then whatever's left over is the shareholders' equity or the net worth of the company. So in terms of assets, the things we're going to consider, at least in current assets that are current year, are going to be our supply chain designs that we're going to consider are the accounts receivable and the inventory. There are the things that our supply chain design will affect, and that will be consumed in the current year. These are current assets. We also have some things that will be used over several years, over future years, the property, plant, and equipment. We are going to consider things like warehouses or manufacturing equipment, trucks, and so forth. And we'll also have to consider the depreciation of those assets over time. So that's the primary assets we're going to look at. In terms of liabilities, there's again current and long term liabilities. And the ones that our supply chain design will mostly affect is how we pay our suppliers in terms of accounts payable. Finally, in terms of shareholders' equity, that's what's left over the end. We do want to understand retained earnings, because that's going to be the critical value that we're creating in our firm. But we'd like to break that down further. And that's what the income statement does for us. So the income statement describes the performance between those snapshots on the balance sheet. And it explains why retained earnings has changed over time. It breaks it down for us very nicely. And most of the components of the income statement are things we're going to consider in our supply chain design evaluations. That starts at the top line, the revenue or sales. We'll use the term revenue. And that's the amount that's net the markdowns or discounts we may provide to incentive the customers to buy things. We also then subtract that as a separate line item, the cost of the goods sold, the material costs, the direct labor costs. These are direct cost related to any particular product that we sell. And we will use the term cost of goods sold or COGS. Subtracting those gives us our gross income. We then subtract operating expenses that can't necessarily be attributed to one particular product, but are accumulated as operations across all products. And we'll use the term operating expenses. Although a lot of times this is referred to as selling, general, and administrative expenses, or SG&A. So we will definitely consider these operating expenses. And then subtracting the operating expenses from the gross income gives us our operating income. There's another flavor of operating income, and we'll distinguish them in the minute here. But when we take out the depreciation for the longer term assets that we're going to incorporate in our supply chains, we definitely want to incorporate that depreciation into our analysis because it'll affect our income. And therefore the cash flow is related to the income that we generate. Amortization is of non-tangible goods. So we probably won't have much non-tangible goods in our supply chain. So it's mostly depreciation. And then finally, there's things-- the interest, other non-operating expenses. Obviously we wouldn't include non-operating expenses. Interest is incorporated in a special way. And we will describe that in terms of evaluating the supply chain design that's incorporated in the discounted cash flow analysis that we'll talk about in the future. So it's directly a cash flow we're going to estimate. We're going to implicitly incorporate that in our analysis. We will consider the income taxes though because that is a cash flow that's relevant dependent on how well we perform up top. And then obviously we will ignore the extraordinary items. And that gives us our bottom line income. So those are the main components. Most of the income statement we're going to incorporate. Just again for terminology, to distinguish the two types of operating income, EBIT is this part that's earnings before interest and taxes. The interest and taxes below here. So EBIT subtracts out the earnings that come before that. And right above that is the earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization. So again, to distinguish those terms, we'll use the terms in a bit later on as well. Also, I want to quickly review the difference between short and long term expenses. The short term expenses are things that will be included in this year's income statement. At the operating expenses, as we mentioned, is the term we're going to use. The longer term investments are called capital expenditures, or CapEx. And this is for assets that have a useful life beyond this current year. Therefore, we wouldn't incorporate all of the costs as an operating expense for this year's income. So we instead report it on the balance sheet. But yet, we depreciate it over time. And that depreciation will affect our income statement as well. And there's also possibly a salvage value at the end that we may want to incorporate in any investments we make in capital expenditures. Now some expenses could be either a capital expenditure or an operating expense. A good example is information technology which often changes quickly, and therefore could actually only have a useful life of one year. So for example, some companies may replace computers every year. In that case, it may be appropriate to consider it an operating expense. And there is some choice that accountants can make in doing this, whether you capitalize an expense and make it a capital expenditure, or whether you can incorporate it as an operating expense. And this will change our income and our tax burden. And let me give you a little example why. So let's assume our firm-- including everything else except for our computer purchase-- makes $5,000 a year. And we have a $3,000 computer. So we're investing $3,000. So if we make it a capital expense, a CapEx, then we will depreciate that over three-- let's say it have a useful life of three years. We'll depreciate it over three years. And that gives us then an income of 4,000 each year. But if instead we wanted to make it an operating expense, then that 5,000 over the three years is the same. But our expenses are all incorporated in that first year. The full cost of the computer to give us a $2,000 profit. And then there's no cost in the future years to give us 5. So the total in the end ends up being the same $12,000, but how that accumulates in terms of our income or reporting, if we capitalize it, we show more income this first year and less in future years. But it also changes the tax burden because it we'll show more income here. So therefore, we'll pay more taxes. So that's how that decision affects the cash flows. And a firm will often have rules and practices for this. We won't get into the details of whether it should be a capital expense or an operating expense, because you'll have to check with the accountants in your firm for any particular situation. Finally, the other aspect we want to consider and make sure we're on the same page is working capital and how we consider working capital. So the general definition of working capital is current assets minus current liabilities. But the part we're going to really focus on is this cash to cash cycle, the accounts receivable, the inventory, and the accounts payable. These are the parts of the supply chain design that we really affect. The other parts of working capital are not things that we affect completely in our supply chain design. So it's good to remember that the working capital-- the requirements we have for working capital are actually an investment. We have to finance these things. So we'll finance the accounts receivable-- or AR is an abbreviation-- because we're basically enabling our customers to pay later. Therefore, we have to carry the capital to finance that. We also obviously have to have the capital for inventory in our firm before it's purchased. So we're investing in these things. We get some relief in terms of our working capital requirements from our suppliers who allow us to pay later in terms of the form of accounts payables, or AP, which is an abbreviation for accounts payable. And so the net working capital requirement is the accounts receivable plus the inventory minus the accounts payable. That's a term we'll use for working capital. And we're really not going to consider these other aspects when we're looking at working capital investments. Now our supply chain design will definitely be able to influence these requirements by enabling us to collect payment as quickly as possible by preserving our customers well. Obviously by keeping our stock levels as low as possible without hurting our revenues, we can improve our capital situation. And if we delay paying suppliers as long as possible, that will help things as well. So there are aspects of working capital that we will influence on our supply chain design. And we want to consider how we incorporate those investments in evaluating our design.
