OK, let's get started looking at selecting the optimal DCs using these trade-offs. So I've got my NERD 2 problem, my 12 cities, and five candidate solutions. And I want to find the single DC location that minimizes facility and transportation costs. We already solved this, and we found that it was Worcester was the location and the total cost was $89,000 and change. And we can also look at some metrics. So for this solution I can, after the fact, look and see, OK what is the average customer distance? And that's simply the distance from each distribution center that it's serving. This average distance for each of the cities. Then I look at the average weighted, what I call, demand distance. And that's where you weight that distance by the amount of volume that's going through each of the cities. Then we look at percent demand within the distance brackets. So I want to say, what percent of the demand is within 25 miles, 50 miles, 50 to 75, 75 to 100, and over 100. So what we see is, here's my optimal location. If I can only pick one, it's going to be Worcester. And here are my distances. And 10% of all the demand is within 25 miles. The majority is between 25 and 50. So this raises the question, well maybe I should open two DCs. What if I open two? Where should I locate them? So we're going to do-- and you can do this in the spreadsheet that you have-- is we're going to set the P_min and the P_max-- which were equal to 1-- set them both equal to 2. So you change the right-hand side from 1 to 2 for both. Solve it. And now what are we doing? We're finding the optimal two DC locations. We're forcing it. You've got to open two. If you have to open two, which one of the five candidates do you open? And you'll see it'll open Springfield and Boston. Now some of you might be surprised that it didn't keep Worcester and open something else. This happens a lot when you have binary variables. A slight change can have a dramatically different solution. It's something to keep in the back of your mind. And we'll talk more about this when we talk about realistic practices. All right. So we can also look at the level of service. We can see what our customer distance-- and we notice it went down as I opened more DCs. Same thing with my average demand distance. And now instead of 10%, I've got 37% of my customers within 25 miles. That's pretty good. Let's keep going. Now we're going force P_min and P_max equal to 3. So if I open up three, I'm suddenly going to open up my Providence DC. And what it's going to do is, it's going to serve its own demand as well as New London, which it's taking from what Springfield used to service. And so I can see what happens to my distance and all my other metrics and my costs. We'll summarize these at the end. But let me just keep going through. And now I'm going to force four DCs to be open. And it opens up Nashua, which makes sense because you had all this long haul from Boston up to the northern part of the region. And now I set up a northernmost DC. And so it takes off that whole line haul distance. So it makes sense to open up that facility if I have to open up four. All right. So now, I want to do one more. I'm going to forced it to five, which really isn't much of a decision as I only have five candidates. But what it's doing-- go back-- it's taking the Worcester domain and saying you know what, open Worcester DC. Serve your own demand. You're not going to have to serve it from Boston anymore. So it gets rid of that. That's the real change from going from four to five. We see what the costs are, service level metrics. And now let's look at them all on one table. So some observations. What I've got here each column forcing the number of distribution centers from one to five. The first row is my total cost, which is the sum of the transportation costs and the facility costs. Then I've got a bunch of metrics for the average distance, the average customer distance from each city. Then I weight that by the volume in each city. Then I list the maximum customer distance. Which city is the furthest away from any distribution center that's serving it? So I see that it's New Haven. Initially it's 98 miles away when I'm servicing out of Worcester with just one plant-- or one DC, rather. And it reduces pretty dramatically down when I introduced three, four, and five. And then I also have the percent of the demand that's within 25 mile bands. Within 25 miles, 25 to 50, 50 to 75 and so on. So what do I see? Increasing the number of DCs reduces the distance to customers. You see all of these numbers decrease, right? As I get more distribution centers open, the average customer distance is cut in half, from 56 to 25, and cut to quarter for the average demand weighted distance. You can see the maximum, the worst located city, goes from 98 miles away to 63. That's a big improvement. And you can see the percent of the population that's within 25 miles increases from 10% to 77%. So it makes sense as I increase the number of DCs, my service level is going to increase. Costs don't always move in the same direction, though, right? The facility costs obviously move up lockstep. Every new facility I open adds $10,000. And the outbound transportation decreases. Now, why isn't inbound transportation increasing here? Well, it's because I didn't capture it in the model. All that I'm capturing is the transportation costs from the DC to the customer. We'll introduce models later that have that component. But what I want to show here is the fundamental trade-off between opening more distribution centers. It will improve all of your service metrics. Right? It will also improve your transportation-- your outbound transportation costs at the detriment of higher facility costs. It's a basic trade-off. And we can see this in a number of charts. So what I'm showing here is on the horizontal axis the number of distribution centers we open and we're forcing them open. I'm just seeing what the effect is. And we see what the average demand distance does. As it goes-- this y-axis over here for the red is reversed. So this is 60 miles, and this is 20 miles. So as I increase the number of distribution centers my distance to customers decreases. But my cost, it decreases. But then it starts increasing again as the facility costs start dominating. I can do the same thing with looking at a different metric. Same total cost here on the left axis. But on the right axis now, I'm going to do percent of demand within 25 miles. It goes from around 10% to over almost 80% here. So as I increase the number of DCs, your level of service will almost always increase because you're closer to customers. So what if we want to find just the optimal solution? So far we've forced one DC, two DCs, three DCs, four DCs, five DCs. Now I can use the exact same model. I'm just going to sit P_min to 1, P_max to 5 and our re-solve for lowest cost. I'm going to let the model decide how many locations to open. And as you can guess since we kind of saw where the min was, it's going to open up three. It's going to open up in Boston, Providence, and Springfield. We've actually seen these metrics. So what I've done in this little video segment, hopefully, is shown you a couple things. One, we went and forced a bunch of solutions. These are runs I want to see what happens if we forced two DCs, if we force three DCs. And we saw what the effect was both in terms of the costs, facility, and transportation as well as the impact on all of these service metrics, these proximity to customers. Because in the model you're not going to capture everything that's important in real life. There might be something that's very important about having something open in a certain region. And you can see, OK what is the effect of doing that? So by using this model, I can do a lot of what-if scenarios. And that's what we did. The other thing we get at the very end, we said OK, forget the what-if scenarios. Just find the optimal. And that's where we set the P_min the P_max at different levels. And we wanted the model to give us an idea of, OK, where is the optimal location? So what we're going to do next is say OK, instead of just reporting these after the fact, what if I include those in the model? I include those in constraints. And that's what we'll do in the next video segment.
