In the next segment, we'll talk about outsourcing. Outsourcing is basically the movement of a set of activities or functional services to a contractor instead of doing it internally within the company. So the question is why outsource? There are several reasons for thinking about outsourcing. The external supply may have better capability than we have. The external supplier simply has more appropriate capacity. We need our capacity to do something else. We want to free resources for other purposes. In some cases, the supplier's simply better and can reduce the operating cost. We may be in need of cash and by selling an asset to a provider and letting they provider operator this asset for us gives us a certain cash and then we pay the provider over time for the use of the asset. You can do it in order to spread risk. So you are worried about the certain risk that have to do with a certain operation and you want the supplier to be the owner of the operation or asset. Of course, you may not have internal resource. In this case, it's obvious why you do it. Many companies outsource because simply they want to focus more tightly on the core business. They want to focus on what they're good it, rather than peripheral function. Finally, the supplier may have better economies of scale. They may be servicing several companies like you, and because of economies of scale, the costs are lower, the service is better, what have you. Now the main contributor to success of outsourcing is first of all when the activity is well defined. You don't want to outsource a process that is not well defined because there is no reason to think that the supplier will be better than you in this case. You want to make sure that you have your role and responsibilities of all the parties are very clear. Who is doing what and when and how much they're getting paid for it. You want to have a good relationship with the supplier. The supplier's actually now doing a function that you used to be doing in house, so you want to have a good relationship with the supplier. Finally, you want a high quality supplier. You want somebody who is good at what they do. And the last point is that you want effective contract management. What I mean by that? You want a single point of contact. So you want somebody in your organization and somebody from the supplier organization, maybe even the CEO if this is an important outsourcing arrangement. This has to be the single point for contact between the companies. You want continuously business reviews to find out what's going on, what's going well, what's not going well, and what should be improved. You always want to have regular site visits to see with your own eyes how the suppliers conducting the business. You want to keep performance indicator current. They may change from time to time as the needs change from time to time. This has to be included in the contract and actually has to be changed as needs change. And you always communicate, communicate, communicate. Over communication is not a problem. Under communication is a problem. Now let's go over some key contractual elements. First of all, the definition of what's required. It has to be comprehensive, exactly what is required. What do you want to supplier to do? Then you have to define the process of service evolution. There will be changes in the environment. You want continuous improvement on the part of the supplier. You want to put down the audit and reporting procedure. You want the ability to change services, to add service and delete service. You want to have a process of doing it that is fair to all sides. You want the ability to change volumes, if something, suddenly your business goes up and the supplier has to supply more, you want to make sure that they maybe charge you less because they now have economies of scale. Or they don't have capacity, and they have to have new capacity and they may charge you more, but you have to think about all of this ahead of time. Finally, or the next point, is the service never. There have to be meaningful key performance indicator and targets. So you know if you want 90% on time, you actually measure it and it's something that's important to you. In some contracts, when there is shared risk and reward, you want to think about how you're going to measure this. How you're going to measure the service, for example. You say, I expect 90% on time service, but if it's 95%, I'll give you a little more money. On the other hand if it's 85%, you're going to get penalized for this. Finally, you want the objectives of both sides and the acceptance process of these objectives to be set. Let's continue. Change control process. What happens if the supply gets bought? Do you need approval process over this? What happens if a competitor buys a supplier? How do you protect your intellectual property. Maybe a competitor is buying the supplier. You want to make sure that you avoid lock-in. Lock-in means that you are tied to a particular technology, particular solution, even particular suppliers because-- although outsourcing contracts are longer term by their very nature, you want to make sure there's some out if something fundamentally changes. Of course, you always want to do ongoing market testing and benchmarking, find out if there are others in the marketplace who can provide even better service, and you want to take it back to your partner and find out why that supplier is not as good. You want the whole process of dispute resolution. When there's a key employee change, you may rely on a team of engineers in the supplier are very, very good, world class, and suddenly, several members of the team leave to start their own start up in a totally different business. So you want also to review key employees, and you also want to make sure you have a say in the hiring of key employees. You also want to think about termination process. Force majeure is a contractual term when a supplier says I cannot supply something because something happened. There's a force of God. There's a flood. There's an earthquake. I just cannot supply something. You want to limit those to make sure the supplier has an incentive to have extra inventory, extra plants, and processes to get out of a disruption without just resorting to force majeure. You want to include support for the new contractor, and if you have to terminate the process, if you have to terminate the outsourcing agreement, you need to train a new outsourcing supplier. Records have to be destroyed and returned. And now the question is who owns the capital assets? Who pays for the cost of moving the equipment or plant to a new location. Maybe they share it. Maybe one party is responsible, or another. A very important issue is the usual of intellectual property ownership. Who owns the knowledge base, the data work product, the engineer design, the vendor list, the price data, and on and on and on. The software, the test databases, the engineering analysis, all of this. The question is who owns them when you have to terminate the contract. Most importantly, do you retain the knowledge to monitor the next contractor performance, to take the work back in house or what are the effects of this on engineering talent? When you go to outsourcing, you have to think that-- and I've known several companies who had this problem when they outsourced product design to China-- suddenly they saw that many of their engineers were leaving the company, because they didn't want to just fly to China and be responsible for monitoring Chinese manufacturers. They became engineers because they like to do the design and they like to do the engineering. So you have to think about the effect of total outsourcing on your engineering talent in house.
