Let's take a moment to review some of the key points from this lesson. So the lesson talked a lot about cash flows, different types of cash flows, different timing of cash flows, different magnitudes of cash flows, and hopefully you're beginning to understand why it's important to be able to describe your supply chain designs in terms of cash flows. And the main reason is because the evaluation of any initiative we have in our supply chain is going to be based on the future free cash flows it creates. And this is for internal budgeting, and to get money for investments to undertake our initiatives. It's also important for communicating to our investors the value we're creating for them, so no matter which KPIs you're using to describe your supply chain performance, you should also be able to boil it down to future free cash flows. One of the difficult steps in doing this is determining which of the cash flows are relevant for our particular supply chain initiative, and we have fortunately two principles to use in guiding that. And the first is that cash must flow-- cash has to move, money has to move, in order for it to be relevant. And two, that it must be incremental regarding our project. With our initiative or without our initiative, we should be able to determine which of the incremental cash flows between those two worlds, with and without. We then will need to be able to consolidate those future cash flows that are relevant into free cash flows. And again, this is because the free cash flows are the basis for evaluation for our investors, for the investor value creation, and also business professionals are used to looking at these incremental income statements and balance sheet numbers, but also the free cash flow template we have effectively confounds or combines the various different line items in terms of magnitude and timing. So it gives us a structure to pull everything together. It's also important not to forget the balance sheet. Where really it's a lot easier to think about the income statement and the impact of our supply chain on revenues and expenses, but the balance sheet is critical because capital expenditures, while infrequent, are high magnitude, and because the working capital is almost always a part of our supply chain design, especially the inventory part, but also the payment terms of payables and receivables can be affected. And then being able to turn the net changes in that working capital requirement into cash flows is a bit tricky, but it can make or break our design initiative. And finally, this lesson is not meant to make you an expert in finance or accounting, but it enables you to start the discussions and engage with your colleagues in accounting and finance to make sure your numbers are correct. But the important thing is that you are defining and initiating the process to define the basis for the investment decisions and the budgeting decisions that are being made inside the firm. So we've finished with lesson one, this first step in investment evaluation. Lesson two will focus on these next steps of turning those relevant free cash flows into a figure of merit and comparing it with the criterion to make a decision. So in a nutshell, we've been able to take our supply chain designs, with both our physical and our financial flows, and take those financial flows and turn them into cash flows-- here at the bottom line is free cash flows. And the next lesson helps us turn those cash flows into decisions. All right, well, as always with these lessons, practice problems are really the best way to learn this and especially to understand the cash flows, which ones are relevant. Practice problems will really help you think through that. Use the discussion for questions, comments and suggestions, and good luck counting your cash flows in these exercises and in your professional practice. I hope that your cash flows stack up higher than the coins in this picture.
