Let's move to the more complicated problem. But again, it builds right on the transportation problem, the transshipment problem. So we're going to have a very similar example. We're still dealing with SandyCo. Still has two plants, and they mine, clean, and sort sand. But now they've added two packaging centers. And what these packaging centers do, it takes the raw sand and puts then into bags and whatever. And then those are shipped out to the regions where the customers are. So what we've done here is we've created two echelons, essentially, in our network. So each plant still has a maximum supply. And each region still has a demand that has to be met. And the cost differs whether I move it from plant to packaging center or from a certain packaging center to a region. And my objective really hasn't changed. I want to know how much sand should SandyCo ship from each plant to each packaging center and then from each packaging center to each region, each week, to meet the demand at the lowest plan distribution costs. Really the same problem, just a little bit of intermediate transshipment hubs added to the mix. So let's draw a picture. So I've got my two plants. I've got my three regions. All's good. Nothing's changed from the transportation problem. But now I've got these two centers, these two packing centers that I label A and B. So my flow is going to go from these plants to these packing centers. And from each of these packing centers, you can go to any one of the three regions. All my notation has not changed. My origins, i's, and my destinations are j's. My supply, demand, and cost have not changed. And my flow, my decision variables have not changed. It's still I'm trying to decide how much to flow on each arc from i to j in tons of sand per week. My data hasn't changed. The supply hasn't changed. The demand hasn't changed. So I think it's changed a little bit of these costs because now I have these new arcs. Instead of going straight from the plant to the region, I go from plant to each center. So C_1A cost me $190 a ton. And then going from A to 1 would be 175. So if I wanted to ship sand from P1 to region one going through distribution center C, center A, would be $365 per ton. All right, so how do we formulate this? Again, it doesn't change that much. Here's a formulation. And let's go through it line by line. The first line is the objective function. Absolutely no change. I'm still minimizing the sum of all the costs on all the arcs times the flow on each of those arcs. My supplies constraints hasn't changed. I still have this for all i's in S, which there's only two of them. So there will be two supply constraints. Demand, this is making sure demand is met for all j's within D. And there's three of those. Hasn't changed. And then let me jump down here to the non-negativity. All our flow still has to be in the real world, has to be zero or greater. The only thing that's new is this constraint. This is known as a constraint for the conservation of flow. So let me talk a little bit about this because it's a little complicated, but it's critical for any network problem that we have. Because what we've done so far, we had two types of nodes. We had supply nodes at these plants where stuff comes from. And then we had demand or sink nodes where stuff when to. Now we're introducing these transshipment or intermediate nodes where whatever flows in has to flow out. You can't accumulate product. How do we enforce that? Well let's take an example. Let's say I have a node j. Pick whatever your intermediate node is. And I'm going to look at everything coming into it, all the x_i,j's. So everything going into j, I'm going to sum those. Sum for all is of x_i,j. So x_1 to node j. x_2 to node j. x_3 to node j. All the things coming in. And then I'm going to look at everything going out. And all I did was flip the subscripts. So it's x_j,i, and I'm going to sum this over i again. And so for node j, it's everything going from node j to node 1, to node 2, to node 3, to node 4, whatever. So what's coming in and what's going out has to be equal. Right? So all I've done is this x_i,j. The first term is this. The second term is this. So if they're equal to each other, if I subtract one from the other, I should get 0. So my constraint is simply saying the sum of the input minus the sum of the output has to equal 0 for all nodes that are not in demand nodes and that are not supply nodes. In other words, only those intermediate nodes have to have conservation of flow. What goes in needs to go out. Very straightforward. And it's a nice easy, elegant way to enforce that. So we'll enforce this for any node that is a transshipment point, a cross dock, a mixing center. Hubs sometimes are called this. So the idea is I've got three types of nodes now-- source nodes where stuff comes from, demand nodes where stuff goes to, and transshipment nodes where stuff goes in and out and doesn't accumulate. So how do I formulate this? Should look very similar. I've got my objective function up here in cell B3. And it's simply the sum product of my decision variables times my cost on each arc, because that's the only cost I have so far. You see I broke the arcs up between the ones in columns C through F are the plants to the centers. And then from G to L, there are the flows from the center to the regions. Pretty straightforward. And then I have the same supply constraints in rows nine and 10. The same demand constraints in rows 13 through 15. And then my conservation of flow. So let's look at row 18 and see what it's doing. This is going for center A. So I'm saying, OK, because this is just the sum product here in cell M18, sum product of this row, this array, times my decision variables up here in row five. It's going to be this variable in cell C5 times 1 plus what's in x in cell E5 times 1 minus what's in x A1 which is in cell G5 five minus what's in cell H5 minus what's in cell I5. So it's what's the inbound is in columns C through F minus the outbound, which is columns G through L. And again, the reason why I love this formulation, you see the whole matrix. So you can get a sense of what this is saying. These are all the inbounds to A. And here's all the outbounds to A. Here are all the outbounds from B. And here are all the inbounds to B. The logic just hits you right in the face. The other beautiful thing, the equations that you use to solve this are really straightforward. All the constraints here are really the same thing. It's a sum product of its own array times the decision variables up here in row five. So you really only have two equations in this whole math program. Now the downside of this formulation-- and we'll talk about this later-- is that it gets big. It gets quite big. But I love it when you're trying to figure out a problem because you can see the structure of the problem. All right, we have it in the spreadsheet. You can play it around and put different numbers in and see what it does. But let's solve it. So here's a spreadsheet. I'm in Excel. I open up the solver. You can see I put the objective function in, my changing cells or decision variables. And then I've got the constraints. First, the non-negativity constraints which again are redundant because I can just do this. Then you've got the region demand constraints in rows 13 to 15. Then I've got the supply constraints in rows 18-- oops, the supply constraints in nine and 10. There we go. And then in 18 and 19 are my flow conservation constraints. That's the only new things you've added here really. I make sure I'm solving Simplex. And then I solve it. And this is what you get. It's a solution. And let's look at what it's saying. It's saying shipping 75 tons from plant one to center B. I can just read my decision variables across here and I can see what the solution is for $69,200 a week. Now, let's look at in a picture because sometimes it's easier to see. So here's my solution. And there's my input data. So let's look at this for a second. Now what we have, look at plant one is not operating at capacity. So it has a capacity of 100 tons a week. And so it's only shipping out 75. Plant two now is operating at full capacity. That's interesting. If I look at the distribution centers or the packing centers rather, I can see that B gets served by both plant one and plant two. And plant two only goes to A. And then A is the only one who serves region one. So if I look at region one I'm only served by one plant. Look at plant three and plant two. The sand, I don't whatever sand I receive here at region two, it could come from plant one or plant two. I assume it's fungible, it's a commodity. So that's actually a nice thing, a little more resilient. I have a little more backup, a little more flexibility. Region one out here, if its demand suddenly goes up, that's a little bit of a problem because I'm only being single sourced. We'll talk about this in later lessons. But what I want to make sure you start doing is when you look at a solution, don't just say OK, there's my answer, done. Does it make sense? Does it fit everything? Are there any issues that are missed? As we talk more about this, that's the more important component of using one of these models. Not just being able to formulate it, get the math and get a number, we can do that. But the real thing is how do I interpret that result? What does it mean? Where are the strengths? Where are the weaknesses? Because these models are all decision support. They are not the final solutions.
