In the last segment of this lesson, we will talk about corporate social responsibility or CSR as it manifests itself in the purchasing of products and services. So in general, one can think that there are three hurdles to success. A company must meet or exceed marketplace demand. It has to be ahead of the competition. A company must meet or exceed regulatory demand. It has to operate legally within the framework of the law. And it has to meet or exceed the social demand of civil society. It cannot do something that is against what civil society thinks are the right things to do. So there's a range of activities that we can include in corporate social responsibilities. These may include philanthropy, include activities that are done to enhance the brand, include activities that are aimed at attracting people, include activities that support the main mission of the company, include social business, and include activity that directly support the cost reduction or increase revenue, which mean increase the profits of the business. And let's give examples of each one of those. So an example of philanthropy is WalMart, which in 2007 gave over $100 million to all the communities where they do business. Example of brand image is Ben & Jerry's, the ice cream maker, and Starbucks coffee. Both of them are very environmentally responsible. And this environmental responsibility is just to enhance their brand. So Ben & Jerry's is known as a company that has a very small carbon footprint. And Starbucks is a company that makes sure that all its employees have health care. It actually now also allows employees to take a degree, a graduate degree at night, and they'll pay for it. So it treats its employees well, and it treats the farmer and the suppliers well. An example of HR attraction is T&T, the logistics company, which contract with the World Food Program to provide food to communities all over the world. This helped employees pride and satisfaction in being employees of T&T, and it helps retain employees and attract new employees into T&T. An example of mission support is Cisco Network Academy. Cisco allows people who are right now may be on minimum wage to take a course for free in the evening at their Network Academy. And they have academies like this all over the United States. Within several months, sometimes years, they train these people to be network technicians, to be able to fix the Cisco network. Now on the one hand, this is a corporate social responsibility or a social mission because they allow those people to move from minimum wage to middle class salaries. On the other hand, it also helps Cisco because there are dozens of those or hundreds of those in some cities, and they can go to a new customer and tell the customer look, if you buy our equipment, there will be 152 technicians within two miles of your place. And this is our website, and this is who they are, and you can get them. An example of social business is either Patagonia, what they call doing well by doing good, or micro-financing that took place in Bangladesh to begin with and then in several other countries, where money was given mostly to women, small amount of money to start businesses. Turned out to be a very profitable business, because there were almost no defaults on this money. Patagonia did something else. They had ads in the newspaper when they came out with a new product several years ago, and the ad said don't buy this jacket. They were trying to convince people to go and buy used jacket, used Patagonia jacket on eBay. Now, why is it good for Patagonia? Clearly it's good for the environment because if people don't throw away a jacket and don't buy a new one, but somebody buys a used one, then a new one doesn't have to be made. And there's smaller environmental footprint. But it also helped the business. That's why Patagonia was doing well by doing good, because think about it. It helped sell the new jacket because people now knew that even though the jackets are expensive, they can sell them after a few years. There's a market for them. There's also a message about how durable this jacket is, that they last a long time and you can sell them later on. So all of this helped Patagonia's business. And in fact, many of its competitors thought it was just a marketing trick, and not really done for corporate social responsibility, even though Patagonia is a company committed to corporate social responsibility. Finally, there's many, many examples of so-called eco efficiency, or efficiency, reducing cost, and at the same time reducing the carbon footprint. IBM operating now green data centers powered by sun power, by wind power, by hydro power. And many of these centers consume no fossil fuel energy, so they don't contribute anything to global warming. And at the same time, energy costs are lower. So they both are good for the environment and good for cost reductions. Many, many examples like these. Many companies change light bulbs or reduce the speed of trucks. They reduce the energy consumption, reduce costs, but also reduce the emission and the use of fossil fuel. So one can think about a range of procurement activities in order to make sure the suppliers are environmentally responsible. The first one is having a code of conduct. Many companies have a code of conduct for the supplier. For example, Ikea have what is called IWAY, or IKEA Way. This is a set of principles that govern who can be a supplier for IKEA. And suppliers, if they fall on one of them and don't comply with one of them, they have a certain time to make good and to improve, otherwise they stop being suppliers. Unless it's one of those very important items that there's no recovery from them. For example, if IKEA discovers that somebody is using slave labor or child labor, the supplier is cut off immediately. But this is all included in the code of conduct. Of course, the code of conduct requires regular auditing. For example, many companies, IKEA and many others are doing auditing of suppliers. Intel is trying to make sure, or has now made sure that it's not using any conflict minerals. These are minerals that are mined in the Democratic Republic of Congo through conditions of slave labor and coercion in conflict area by guerrilla group and gangs. So it's now enshrined in US law, but even before the law, Intel tried to make sure that it's not using any mineral mined in the Congo. For this, it had to go very deep in the supply chain and finally get to the smelters, which is the last point where one can audit where the conflict minerals are coming from. But audit was key to find out that it is free of conflict minerals. Many companies also train suppliers to become better. For example, Starbucks has over 100,000 suppliers of coffee. And it works with all of them to make sure that they use efficient processes, they use just enough water and not too much, and use the right minerals in the ground, and they work with the land in an efficient way. These things both reduce the environmental footprint of growing coffee, and they also actually reduce the cost or they making the farms a lot more productive, and thereby reducing the cost. Unilever does the same thing with their tea plantations and many of their other materials that they get into their products. Finally, there's supply chain transparency. There's the issue of you want to be very transparent, to show everybody that you're actually doing the right thing. So the example is Patagonia. If you go to the Patagonia site and click on a certain product, and then click on what's called the footprint chronicle, you will get a picture something like this. You will first get a picture of a map with a location of all the suppliers who contribute parts and material to the product, and where the product is actually assembled or made. And then when you click on each supplier, you'll get a lot more information on the supplier, including for example the ratio of females and males, including the language spoken, what they make here. But a whole history of their corporate social responsibility, how they treat their employees. Were there any problems that Patagonia found through the audit? Or the existing problem, how much time they have to fix this problem? So the good and the bad about each one of these suppliers. This type of transparency makes sure that Patagonia creates pressure on itself and its competitors to provide similar transparency and not to hide anything, making sure that everybody who is using Patagonia product can be sure that they're using a product responsibly produced. You can think by way of summary about the hierarchy of procurement, corporate social responsibility. We think about economic responsibility. As we mentioned at the beginning, one has to be ahead of the competition. One has to be within the confines of the law, and have to fulfill any legal responsibility. One has to have so-called license to operate, and fulfill any ethical responsibility. And finally, there are discretionary responsibility, where one might go beyond just standard ethical responsibility or provide some philanthropy on top of everything. So let's summarize this lesson. We started saying that procurement is based on more than cost. Remember the iceberg scenario, the iceberg metaphor. As you deal more and more into the item that you buy, you discover there are many hidden costs that should be taken into account. We can segment the buy into complexity versus spend. And the important quadrant there is the critical buy, that should be reduced either by substitution, simplification, or partnership. So you move the upper left corner into the lower left corner, the lower right corner, or the upper right corner through substitution, simplification, or partnership. The procurement process, we went through the process itself, but the most important part or one of the important part is that it should be followed by data collection and reporting for the next contract. So when you come to procure the same item a year or two years from now, you're not in the same position but you know more. It's important to be a good customer. You have to look internally. Ask your suppliers what you can do in order to simplify processes. Be a better customer, because this will be reflected in the price and in the service. We talk about volatility that can be handled by hedging, either financial hedging or actual hedging. We talked about options. And another way of handling volatility is to separate between the stable and volatile element, and to tie the volatile element to some index. We mentioned that capital goods require special attention, and we talked about certain issues with capital goods that one should pay attention to. We talked about the pros and cons in outsourcing, the fact that it may help you concentrate on the main business, on your core competency. It also may change fixed costs into variable costs. But on the other hand, you may create a competitor, and the business may be taken away from you. Finally, we talked about supplier CSR, and understand that supplier corporate social responsibility reflects on the company. In fact, suppliers by and large are not very susceptible to NGO attack on the corporate social responsibility processes. The companies who are susceptible are the brand holder, the OEM, because they sell to consumers and NGO campaigns usually are aimed at swaying consumers to avoid using the product of a company, even though the offenders may be deep in the supply chain. So let's stop here, and thank you for listening to this lesson.
