OK. So what are the key takeaways from this lesson? We covered a lot of ground here. We started by connecting sales and operations. Remember what we're trying to do is design that information flow as it goes from my production into the customer-facing part of my organization. So we're connecting the sales team with the operational team. We talked about planning horizons and the typical planning horizon for this is in the 3 to 18 months. Kind of an aggregated planning model time horizon. We talked about time fencing. And the idea there is, as I move closer to now, I want to freeze more of my decisions. And as I get further away, I have more flexibility and variability in what I can change. But as you get closer, you change less and less. We talked about managing the supply side. These operational levers that you had. And they really boiled down to two big categories. You can change the capacity through modifying my workforce-- adding labor, taking labor away, seasonality, season-based labor, overtime, outsourcing. These things add capacity. Or you can adjust inventory. Do I pre-build my inventory ahead of time? Do I make it more modular? And the other side, I've got demand levers for the sales side of things. And really, generally, it all boils down to price. How does price change as an incentive? Does it cause me to increase my market share? Increase the whole size of the market? Or does it shift a buying pattern? And what the sales and operations planning does, it tries to balance these. If I make and I use one of these sale levers, how does that affect things? And do I have to do something over here to enable that that can happen? And so that's what the S&OP planning process is. And so it's a structured set of meetings. It requires top and lower level buying and support. And what it really does, it forces joint decision making. And so you provide visibility into both sides of the organization-- the sales side and the supply or operational side. And then it forces you to make those decisions. So altogether, we tried to get across in this lesson is that the difficulties and the challenges and the levers that you have to meet those two needs-- the sales side and the operation side. All right. So if you have any questions or comments or suggestions, please use the discussion forum.
