The fourth and final suggestion that we have is to make sure you separate the math from the decisions. You need to remember that models don't make decisions. People do. The people are making the ultimate decisions. The math and the models are there to support us. So let's talk about some of these things. What is the mathematics and what are the models good for? Well, primarily, the models are awesome at making trade-offs between thousands of variables. Humans can't do this as well. But by setting up these mathematical models, we're able to make those trade-offs across the board. However, models will never be able to consider all the factors that are at play here. And models can never fully represent reality. Remember, they're caricatures. They're not photographs. Also, optimization models will do anything to save a penny, a dollar, a euro, a drachma, whatever. They will always look to minimize their objective function. And so it will do anything. And what seems like a great solution to the model might not make sense in reality. So for example, if you're selecting the top three distribution centers and the model picks three out, you should always look at the fourth, fifth, six, whatever choice to see if the difference is only a penny, or a couple dollars, where the other options would be better from a business sense. You should also always do sensitivity analysis- Do the models see what happens if I change the costs a little bit, or change the demands a little bit to see how fragile or robust the actual solutions are? Because optimization models, like we said, will do anything to reduce its objective function. This leads to the last two major points. The first is that models should be used for decision support-- decision support, not for the decision itself. These are decision support tools. So what comes out of the model is another piece of input for the decision maker to make, because these executives and managers of these supply chains, they have additional experience and insights into the overall situation that are just as valid as the mathematical model itself. So remember that these models are decision support tools. They're not making the decision itself. All right, so we went over four suggestions for you. The first one, when you're involved in a strategic network design project, make sure you understand the project. Make sure you understand the people, the objective, and then the supply chain itself. And we gave you some tips on how to do that. Focus on the problem. By this we mean make sure you only include the things that are important and you separate out those trivial things. Use your segmentation rules. Try to understand what are the important things to include in the model and what can be left out. And what can I handle maybe separately in a different smaller analysis? And how should I aggregate my data? Because you want to make sure you're solving the most important problem at hand and not trying to solve everything and boil the ocean. You should try to be experimental. And by this, we mean two things. First, use the spiral method. Start small. Iterate. Get feedback. Change the model. And keep doing that in the spiral method. And that helps you in many aspects. It brings people. And they see results faster. They can incorporate insights and changes faster. So it's really good in developing the model. The second thing with that is once you have the model developed, run as many scenarios as you can. What if scenarios are awesome. This is the purpose of having the model. You can cost out different things that you wouldn't be able to do otherwise. So be very experimental in what you try once you have the model developed. And the last thing we just talked about, be sure to separate the mathematics from the decision being made. Remember, everything we've talked about in the last four lessons are developing network design models for decision support, not for making the decision itself. All right, so that's all I wanted to talk about for some of these practical issues for supply chain network design. If you have any questions, comments, suggestions, please use the discussion forum.
