PROFESSOR: Welcome to part 3 in this recitation of optimization using spreadsheets. We will start adding additional complexity as we go through the different parts of this problem. And now it's time to add a new constraint, which is related to the capacity of the assembly plants. If you haven't yet, please pause this video. Go through the problem statement. Try to populate your spreadsheet with the new numbers, and return to us in a few minutes. Hopefully, you are all set. So let's go through it together. Problem statement is telling us that there has been a disruption in spare part availability that affected capacity of our assembly plants. So let's analyze what are the elements that now we have in our problem? Please also double check that the profit maximization approach has been disregarded by the team analyzing these results. So this is what we talk about in terms of not overriding your model as you go through different parts of a problem but actually having it in different tabs of your spreadsheet. So as of now, if I need to replicate one of the models, the one closer to what I need is the one in part 1, not the one in part 2. So this is why we suggest you to do every part of every problem in different tabs. And I promise, it's not adding extra effort or extra time. It will save you a lot of time. Question one, as you know, is going to ask about the elements. So we're using the model in question 1. So just let's remember what we had there. We still had the objective function, the demand constraint, and the non-negativity constraint. We're still not needing binary variables, linking constraint, or conservation of flow. But we are actually needing now a supply constraint because we have a capacity one. So let's click it, submit, and see how it goes. Great. So remember, using the Show Answer button if you want to see the model formulation. And join me using the spreadsheet to find the minimum transportation cost with this new piece of information regarding capacity constraint. So we read the problem. We understood the model. We know now the elements we need. We're going to replicate part 1 model, as we talked. I'm just moving to the end, same book, creating a copy, and renaming it to part 3. And I'm ready to bring the new numbers provided in the problem statement. So to me, the best place to add the capacity constraint is near the place where we can sum all the units flowing from that assembly plant that has a capacity. So capacity is coming here for me. Now, I know we have 13,000 units for assembly plant 1 and 3,500 for assembly plant 2. You can see that it automatically color-coded for us, but it's not correct. So I'm going to change that. This is provided data, right? And the next thing we need as we talk is a calculated field that is going to consider how many units are flowing from each one of the assembly plants so that we ensure we're not exceeding our capacity. I'm going to name this column flowing from plants. And again, just make it as it's better for you and clearer for you. And I'm going to sum the units flowing from each one of the assembly plants, OK? This is going to be a calculated field, so it's light blue for me. And I think I have all the information I need to adjust my solver and find my new minimum transportation cost. However, let's pause a second and try to understand the numbers here. Let's briefly think on what happens on a model when we add a new constraint. As you know, this is the exact same model we have in part one with just one additional constraint. However, all the rest of the data points are the same. We still have that same objective function. We're still having the same costs per miles, the same miles between the two nodes. So we're just adding a new element that is the capacity constraint to an existing model. When that happens, what are the possible outcomes? If you have a model and everything else remain equal and you just add a new constraint, there are only two possible outcomes. One of them is that you don't get any different result. So if your minimum cost was a certain number after adding that constraint, it's still the same number. Or the most frequent outcome is that the minimum cost will be higher. This is because, if the model find an optimum solution without constraints, we're forcing the model to select a solution that was not optimal initially, and that will definitely require extra cost. However, this new solution will be optimal in a new scenario where we have a new constraint. So this is tricky to see without numbers. So I invite you to carefully go through the assembly plant flow. This is what we have. Remember, I still haven't set my solver, so this is coming from part one. Originally, we were sending from assembly plant 2, 4,000 units to region 2. However, we've been told that we cannot send any more than 3,500. With that, assembly plant 2 will no longer be able to fulfill the demand of that region, and it was actually the cheaper option. So now the model will force the assembly plant 1 to fulfill a part of the demand that couldn't be fulfilled by this assembly plant 2 in the cheapest option because it's closer in miles. If you go back to the lessons, you'll notice that capacity for assembly plant 2 is a binding constraint. You now know that your solution will never be better than that one you had before having this binding constraint. Capacity for assembly plant 1, though, was not binding because we were not sending any closer to the 13,000 units. So no matter how high this is, if we don't need to send those many units, our solution would not be affected by that specific constraint. Hopefully, that was clear. I assured you that's very important. So if it's not super clear, please go back. Go through it again, or go through the discussion forum to better discuss about it, see different examples. Or play with your capacity constraint and the flows and the demand so that you better understand what happens when things change in different ways. OK, so it's time now to set our solver. I go to Data Solver. The only thing I need to do is adding our capacity constraint. So the units flowing from each one of the assembly plants should be lower, actually, or equal to the capacity constraint. So this means that I can send only as many units as the capacity allows and as much as we need considering the demand, right? Those are the two constraints that we have set. And then we're all set to click Solve and see our results. We found a solution, which is OK. And then it's your turn to input this answer using the two decimal places in our question to part 3 of the Blink problem. And let me how it goes. Please remember to share your questions in the forum if you have any. And I hope to see you in part 4. We're almost there, team. Way to go.
