Hi, this is Jim Rice. Welcome to the supply chain finance module. This lesson, we're talking about defining supply chain finance. Our objective here is to introduce you to the concept of supply chain finance, and define the difference between supply chain financial analysis and supply chain finance. We will also review the principles that made this an emerging and important issue for organizations. And as often is the case, we're not intending to make you supply chain financing experts in this particular content. So supply chain finance, I would argue, has taken on a new meaning. And up to this point supply chain finance, that term has been used as a very broad term. It basically means what we think of as a supply chain. We think about it if we looked at it through a financial lens. So what are the financial impacts coming from a supply chain transaction like the sale of inventory, or the investment in a certain supply chain capability? What is the financial performance impact of some of these different transactions? That's how it's been used, very broadly speaking. But now it has a very specific meaning, this term supply chain financing. It refers to the method to provide liquidity to buyers and sellers. It's not new. Payment terms such as net 30, or 2%, 10 net 30 have existed. I'll explain that in a subsequent segment. The concept is not new but the term is new. And the extent to which it's being used is new, also. We've got to understand what liquidity is. And I'll use the definition borrowed from our colleagues over at Investopedia. They say liquidity is the degree to which an asset or security can be quickly bought or sold in the market without affecting the assets price. Well, I like to think about that as basically the ability for the organization to take some of their assets-- in particular, an asset would be a receivable that they have from a buyer which has an obligation to pay them-- basically to convert that quickly into cash. Now other assets they may want to convert into cash would include inventory and other materials that they might have. Liquidity is really important because you need cash to operate your business. And this was an issue-- has become an issue now-- because as a result of the global financial crisis of 2008, credit is just not available to organizations in the same way as it was previously. It's not just coming at a higher cost, sometimes the credit, the availability of cash, is just not available. And so organizations are looking for different ways to reduce the amount of capital that they need-- the cash or working capital-- that they need. One way for buyers to do that is extend their payments. And those payment terms have been extended from three to 30 days up to 150 days, pretty long time. And so what that means is that suppliers have to operate during that time frame, up to 150 days, without getting paid by that particular customer. Well, that means they need cash, cash to operate, and again that's why liquidity is important. That leads us up to supply chain finance, so better understand it. And it's the set of solutions that allow a company to finance its own working capital. This is a definition offered by my colleagues at Polytechnic [INAUDIBLE]. And an important point to note here is that it often leverages the role of supply chain relationships with other plays and supply chain. Basically if a small supplier collaborates with a larger customer, and the larger customer can make an arrangement with the bank-- to say, hey, you know what? I have a supplier who needs cash. Can you help them out? And basically trade on the credit worthiness of the larger customer that may have better credit terms. Well, then that small supplier gets the benefit out of that. There are many different benefits. And just to be clear, when we talk about financing, we're talking about the-- according to our friends at Investopedia-- the act of providing funds, the funds for activities, whether they're making purchases or investing. And this often involves third parties. And then supply chains are financing or funding their operations, specifically funding their payables, and sometimes they're funding their inventory. Again, to allow them to operate. Because you've got to have cash to pay your suppliers, to pay your utilities, to pay your employees. Liquidity in a cash conversion cycle-- worthwhile talking a little bit about the cash conversion cycle. It's one way to look at the requirement for a working capital, and how that capital is utilized across three different ways it's used. It's used to pay suppliers. It's used by customers when they're paying their suppliers. And of course, it's used to invest in materials, and labor, and salespeople to produce and sell a product. So when we think about a cash conversion cycle, we think about the time it takes from the time that organization puts one unit of money in as an investment, to when they finally get that investment returned-- and usually with the sale of product. And that cycle time is called the cash conversion cycle. For organizations to reduce the time it takes for them to get that money back, they take a variety of different actions that could include reducing the cycle time for producing a product, selling it more quickly, slowing down payments to suppliers that reduce the working capital, but also arranging for faster payments from customers. Let me give you an example that might be a helpful illustration here. We see a number of companies in the consumer products industry from 2016. All this data is from their annual reports. We've broken out their cash conversion cycle into the days of inventory outstanding, the days of sales outstanding, the days of payables outstanding. Many of these organizations, we can see here, are operating at what's called negative cash conversion cycle. And what that means is they're using OPM, or other people's money, to fund their operations. So let's look at the case of Nestle. They're paying in 147 days. So it takes 147 days for them to pay their suppliers. Well, they're using that money to fund their operation. And let's just look at this-- the days of inventory outstanding. That's basically the time it takes for a company to produce a product and then to sell it. And then maybe that takes them 68 days, so they're using 68 of those 147 days of their payments, they're using them for that. Which basically means, overall, that Nestle has been sitting on somebody else's money for almost 30 days. Pretty good deal. But you can see a look at Kimberly-Clark, they have to fund their operation for upwards of 19 days. So that's actually pretty good, but still they need to have cash to operate for 19 days. If you do this for other organizations you'll see a variety of different ranges but this gives you a little bit of an idea of how the cash is used when people-- one way to look at working capital and how it's employed by organizations. Key points here, that payment terms have increased. Credit has become more difficult, which makes it much more difficult for suppliers to operate with these long payment cycles. Therefore, they have the need to finance some of these assets that they have-- inventory, or receivable-- in order for them to actually operate, to fund their business, to pay their bills. Now supply chain finance is a specific term that is now being used to describe that process where firms reach out to finance their operations. And the cash conversion cycle provides a useful illustration for how different companies can use capital. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use the discussion forum. I look forward to seeing you in a future segment. Thank you.
