So now, let's show another optimal method for solving the fixed planning horizon problem. And this approach is using the mixed integer linear program. So the formulation should look pretty familiar to you if you've done any network design. We have an objective function that includes the setup costs and the holding costs. The setup costs are simply the charge for each setup run, c_setup, multiplied by Z_t, which is one of our decision variables that is equal to 1 if we manufacture anything in time period t and 0 otherwise. It's a binary variable. The second term is the holding costs. And this is simply multiplying the inventory cost for holding one unit over one time period multiplied by the amount of inventory I have at the end of the day. That's I_t. So at the end of the time period. So these are my two costs, the setup costs and the holding costs. I'm minimizing that subject to a series of constraints. The first constraint just sets my inventory level. And I'm assuming my inventory level at time period 0 is 0. I've got nothing starting. The second constraint is the conservation of flow or the inventory balance equation for time period t. What is it saying? It's saying that whatever I produce in time period t-- that's Q_t. It's a decision variable-- minus what's demanded in time period t, what I send out, plus what I had the previous time period at the end of that time period, minus what I end up with this time period is equal to 0. So the inventory has to flow somewhere. I either produce it, I send it out to satisfy demand, I have received it from the previous time period, or I have it at the end of the time period. So that has to be equal to 0. Because I have binary variables and continuous variables, I need to link them together. So this is saying if I produce anything in time period t, then I better turn that binary variable on, saying I'm producing something in time period t. And it does this using the logical constraint we've talked about before with that big M value, which is a very large number. It should probably be equal to the total demand in this case. And so if there's any demand or any product produced in time period t, then we turn that flag on. And then, there's something that we can't do, or we're not able to do, in any of the other approaches we've talked about so far. And that is enforced capacity constraints. So what this constraint is saying is that my capacity in time t cannot be exceeded by whatever I produce in time period t. So it's putting a capacity on what I can produce. And that's very useful. Then, I've got the non-negativity constraints for the inventory level and for the Q, how much I produce. And as I said, my Z variable is binary. It's either 0 or 1. I can put this into a spreadsheet. And I've got my objective function here in cell F5. That's the sum of the setup cost and the holding cost. My decision variables are in cell C12 to N13. The row 12 are the Q_t's. Row 13 are the Z_t's, the binary variables. And what I can do here for you is show you how I calculate the inventory. And so if we look at cell C15, for example, we see that it consists of what I started with in cell C11, my beginning inventory, which is the same thing as my end inventory in the previous time period, plus when I made in that time period minus what I sent out in demand. And that is my ending inventory. And so I calculate that in row 15. And then, you can see in row 19 I cost that out for how much by holding cost is. And I sum that up to determine my total holding cost. My setup cost, I take care of that logical constraint. That's in row 22. And what that's saying, it's saying it's multiplying that big number multiplied by the binary variable minus how much I produced in that period. And we have to enforce the constraint that this is greater than 0. All right. So I have it formulated in here. You can see the equations. I can solve it. And you guys should be very comfortable with this. I've got my objective function of F5. I'm minimizing. I have my decision variables highlighted. And I have really, basically, two constraints. I want to make sure my inventory doesn't go below 0, and I want to make sure that my linking constraints are valid. Now, this one with binary variables, I just named the array in this case. You could just call it that row, and they would be fine. But I'm just setting those as binary variables. Now, if you hit Options here-- and we're solving it as a simplex linear program-- I want to point something out. You want to make sure for solving with integer constraints that you do not check this box. This causes a lot of problems. Ignore Integer Constraints. Make sure that's not checked. If you run something and you get the binary variables are coming out as not binary. Check this first. So it's a little bit of troubleshooting. But at the end of the day, you run this, you solve, it and you'll get the solution. Produce 550 in period 1, 450 in period 6, 450 in period 9, and 550 in period 11. This is the same solution as the Wagner Whitin. Is that a coincidence? No. They're optimal solutions. So they better be the same. So by using one optimal method or another, they should give you the same answer. If they don't, then one of them is not optimal. What we'll do next is compare all the different approaches to each other.
