CONNOR MAKOWSKI: Hi there. My name is Connor Makowski, and in this recitation, we'll be solving food on wheels part 2. And to get started, you can see here. I've actually got my Colab Notebook opened up to the end of part 1, and I'm going to go ahead and just create a copy of this. I'm going to say File, Save As Copy, and Drive. And once I create a new copy, I'm going to rename this Food on Wheels P2 and save that. So now that I've got that saved and good to go, I'm going to go ahead and start looking at what problem 2 is. And so we can see that we've actually gone ahead and implemented a new strategy to reduce cost using some different hubs and a centralized kitchen. If you are not yet familiar with this particular part of the problem, I'd recommend pausing now and reviewing exactly what is going on in this problem so you know where we're getting started. All right, so now that we're back, we're going to go ahead and start changing our old model into what our new model should look like. So you can see now that we've got three different distribution hubs, and each one of them is going to serve different areas. And then we also have some different capacities for those hubs as well as the amount of time it takes to ship from some central kitchen to each one of the three hubs. And so now you've got this multilayer network that we're going to be thinking about. So to get started, let's go ahead and start thinking about what we need to do. So we'll go over here to our Google Colab Notebook. The first thing, again, like normal is to install our SCX package. We are going to import our model from our SCX optimize module. And we're going to go ahead and start thinking about what our data is going to look like. So now, instead of shipping from each kitchen directly to each area, we're actually going to be shipping from a central kitchen. And we'll say-- we'll call our central kitchen k1 just for consistency. And so from k1 to hub 1, we're going to say that's going to take two minutes. So I'm going to modify this data, and I'm going to say from k1, or central kitchen, to hub 1, that's two minutes. I'll go ahead and say from k1 to hub 2, that's going to be five minutes. And from k1 to hub 3, h3, that's going to be seven minutes. So now I've actually codified what are all of my different central kitchens, each of my hubs. But now I need to go ahead and do from each of my hubs to each of my areas. So I'll say from hub 1 to area 1, I'm going to say that is going to be 13 minutes. And I can go ahead, and I can keep this in the same transportation matrix because of the way that we're always optimizing for time. And that's the way we're solving this problem. So in this case, we can have a single transportation matrix that has all of our different items, including from each hub to each area as well as from the central kitchen to the hub. So as I go forward, I'm going to go ahead and do that from each one of the hubs to each one of the areas. So to keep things moving here, I'm going to go ahead and paste in my transportation data that I have pre-setup or prewritten. We'll just keep things moving here. You'll also notice at the top here I actually added a couple of quick comments, so from our central kitchen to our hubs as well as from our hubs to our areas. So moving on, the next thing we need to actually get to is our kitchens. We used to have kitchens, two kitchens, but now we just have one. So I'm going to go ahead and get rid of kitchen 2. And our kitchens used to have a limit, but it turns out now that we don't have a listed limit for our central kitchen. So I'm going to go ahead and get rid of that. It's possible that that'll get added back, but for now, we'll probably treat that as a nonconstraint. And what we'll do is we'll actually focus on the fact that our distribution hubs have some daily capacity that will then try to match. So we'll have kitchens, and the next thing we'll actually have is going to be hubs. So we'll go ahead and call this hubs, H-U-B-S, and that's going to equal a list of dictionaries. And so that first item is going to be name, and we'll call that h1, h1. And our hub is going to have a limit, and that limit is going to be 150. So hub 1 capacity is 150. All right, so I'm going to go ahead and do that for each of the hubs, and again, to be a little bit more concise here, I'm just going to copy and paste from some prewritten code here. So I'm going to paste that here. And finally, we've got the idea of our demand, and I don't think our demand has changed. So we're going to go ahead and leave that as is. So now, we've got-- again, back to the top, we've got our transportation matrix. We've got our kitchens, which, again, don't have limits anymore. We have our hubs, which are brand new and in the center or at least in the middle of our network. And then, finally, we have our demand, which is at the end point of our network. So the next thing we're going to do is we're actually going to look at what we need to do. Essentially, we need to have the same decision variable. We have the amount that we're flowing for each item in our transportation matrix, and since we did our transportation matrix to also include from the central kitchen, or from k1, to each hub, that's also going to be included in this. So for t in transport, we're going to say what's the amount we want to flow. So the only variable we're going to need here is the fact that we need to flow an amount on each one of our arcs in the transportation matrix. So we shouldn't need to change anything there. What we will want to change is some stuff further down the line. So let's go to our model. In our model, we are going to go ahead and still be minimizing, so that doesn't change. Our objective function, the amount that we're flowing on each item in that transport matrix times the time, again, that's not changing because we're still minimizing our total delivery times. Will our demand constraints change? No, they shouldn't change as well. Our kitchen capacity constraint will definitely change. So we're actually going to shift that over to a hub constraint. So I'm going to go ahead and just get rid of this, and I'm going to call that hub constraint. So we'll say hub constraints because we'll actually add a couple. I'm going to go ahead, and I'm going to copy this demand constraint for now. And we'll just use that as a baseline to keep moving forward quickly. So we're going to say for d and demand-- actually, this is for h in hub. I think it's hubs. I'm going to add a constraint, and that constraint is actually going to be my hub name. And I'm going to say I need to actually meet my capacity. So for h in hubs, I'm going to have a constraint that I'm meeting my capacity. So I'm going to call this my capacity constraint. And that's actually going to be the function. So it's going to be a sum. Let's not think about what's in this yet. So the sum of all of that actually is going to have to be less than or equal to h limit. So what has to be less than the hub limit? That's actually going to be the amount of items we flow for each item in our transportation matrix, and that's going to be if our origin name-- oops, of our origin name equals our hub name. So for h in hubs, the amount that we flow for each item in transport, if the origin name-- so if it starts at the hub-- it has to be less than the limit. So let's go ahead and add a conservation of flow constraint. So this conservation of flow constraint is going to take in some of those similar things that we've done before. And let's go ahead, and we'll create a new constraint. So we'll say-- we'll copy this one that we've got here currently, so my model.add_constraint. So we're adding a constraint to our model, and this will call conservation of flow, so the hub conservation of flow. That's going to be the amount of things that are originating has to equal the amount of things that are leaving. So how do we actually think about this? I'm going to go ahead and break this down a little bit just to make it a little easier. So the amount of items that are coming in, so this model.sum everything coming in has to equal a model.sum of everything going out. So t amount for t in transport-- oops, if t origin name equals h name has to equal the sum of everything going in, if the destination name-- name equals hub name, so everything that's coming into the hub, so when it's a destination, versus when it's the origin, when something's leaving from it. Everything leaving together has to equal everything that's coming in together. And so if we do this, we've actually effectively created a conservation of flow, so we're ensuring that there's a unity between them, that they're going to be equal. So now that we've gone ahead, and we've created the capacity constraint and this conservation of flow constraint, ensuring, again, that these two are equal, we can go ahead, and we can solve this model. So I'm going to go ahead and hit Run here. Let me go ahead and run some of these other ones up above. I'm not sure if I've run them yet. So when I run this transport 1, I'm going to run for t in transport. We'll create those amounts. It looks like we actually have an issue here. It looks like transport is not defined. Did I not run that? Oop, I didn't. Now let me run this now. And then once we initialize our model, we'll go ahead, and we'll do all that code we just created. And finally, at the end, remember, we're solving that. So let me go ahead and solve this. I'm going to run that. And we can see it effectively ran. Let's go ahead and look at what our formulation is, so I'm going to run this. You can see here that we are currently minimizing 13 times h1a1 amount. So again, this is going to be our hub 1 to area 1, so 13 times that. You'll probably-- if you scroll far enough over, you'll also see from the kitchen 1 to hub 1 as well. We're going to say all of that's subject to those same demand constraints. All the demand was met. We're going to have these capacity constraints for each of the hubs, so we've gone ahead and created a capacity constraint for each hub as well as a conservation of flow. So you can see all of that looks correct. And so let's go on down to the bottom, and we can go ahead and show those outputs. So I'm going to go ahead and run this, and you can see that we've got some outputs going on here. And you can see that our objective has changed quite a bit. And now you can see our objective is actually 46, 92. So let's go over here to our problem. Let's address some of these questions. So for formulating the model, which components are we using? We're not using binary variables. We are using an objective function. We are enforcing demand is met. We are doing a conservation of flow constraint, and we have a capacity constraint. And remember, for each item in our transportation matrix, we have a non-negativity constraint, so we should be able to check that off and see if that's working. So it looks like we're doing pretty well there. And finally, we want to know what the minimum total delivery time is per day in minutes for this distribution network, and that, again, is going to be our objective function. And so that should be 46, 92. And it looks like we're correct. So that is absolutely great. As we continue through the problems, we'll continue to expand this. In the meantime, I thank you very much for your time.
