We begin this lesson by considering the financial flows in our supply chain, and start to understand how we'll use financial flows to evaluate various supply chain design options. So, as we've seen before, the supply chain is comprised of three flows. There is the physical flow of goods that go from suppliers to our firm and that we then turn into finished goods that we supply to our customers. In return, our customers pay us for those finished goods, and then we pay suppliers in the form of money for the goods that they send us. To enable those physical and financial flows to happen, we also have information flows, or data, to communicate across the supply chain. So we've seen this before. We've also seen how the supply chain can be comprised of multiple firms. So instead of manufacturing our goods ourselves, we could contract it out to a contract manufacturer. Instead of running our own transportation fleet, we could also use a third-party logistics provider to do our warehousing and/or our transportation. And so the physical goods may actually not even flow inside of our firm at all. It may not enter our facilities. It may flow completely through third parties. However, the financial flow almost always occurs through our firm. The customers will pay us for the goods that are being provided, and we will then pay our suppliers, as well as the service providers that we contract, in our supply chain. Now, the design of the supply chain is not only about how we're going to make the physical flows move across organizations but the financial flows can happen differently as well. So, for example, I've added some different arrows here as an alternative to paying suppliers directly. We could instead pay more to our contract manufacturer and then have the contract manufacturer pay the suppliers. And the design of how these flows happen across the supply chain, as well as the timing of those flows, will have an impact on the value that we're creating and therefore on how valuable our supply chain designs are. So we'll be also considering the financial flows and the design of those in addition to the physical flows when we consider our supply chain. Beyond the flows between parties in our supply chain, we also have some flows inside of our company, inside of our firm, that we have to consider. And those are our investments we're making internally in our supply chain. So, first of all, before we make an investment, we have to have money, or capital. The primary source for capital for a firm is from its stockholders, or equity investors, and those stockholders purchase stock in our firm to give us capital. The firm may then contract out with debtors, banks, or bond holders, to raise additional capital to expand that pool of capital that can be used for investments. And there's a contraction contractual agreement that we'll pay back those debtors. For example, if you borrow money from a bank you'll have a loan contract where you have to pay them back in a certain period of time. There's nothing not a contractual agreement with our investors, our equity investors, but we hope we'll be able to make enough money to pay them back. How are we going to do that? Well, again, we're going to be taking this capital and investing it inside of our firm, inside of our operational assets. And those investments are things that the supply chain professionals in the organization will be involved in. We may not be deciding how to raise the capital-- down here, the allocation of debt and equity-- but we are definitely involved in determining how to invest it in the operational assets because we are the ones that are helping to design the supply chain where those assets are going to be deployed. In addition, we'll manage those assets and the partners in our supply chain to generate future cash flows. And, hopefully, by managing the supply chain well, our revenues will be greater than our expenses. And, therefore, we will make money. If we cover more than our expenses and the amount of money required to invest in our assets, we will make money. And if we make enough money we will then be able to fulfill the promise we've made to our equity investors in paying them a dividend. Now, the comparison to how well we're doing is really a comparison that our stockholders will make versus other options they have. So they could invest their money elsewhere, in financial assets, and then create a portfolio of options that will give them future returns. So their investment in our firm is a part of their portfolio that they're investing in. And, given our ability to provide the returns in the form of dividends to our investors, we will be attractive to investors or not compared with other assets they can make. So that's the basic proposition, is we're trying to do a good job managing our supply chain and our operations, which is the primary way that you create value in a firm. So when you look more broadly at the financial flows in the supply chain, and it's not just the flows we saw earlier that aligned with the physical flows, but also we have some internal flows inside of our firm in the form of operational assets. So those asset investments, we have the expenses we pay to our suppliers and service providers, we hopefully will get enough revenues to cover both of those. And, if we do that, we will then also have to pay some taxes. So these are the basic financial flows that will occur in the supply chain that we have to consider when making decisions about our designs. I want to give a few examples of some of the investments we can make inside the firm. And these are, again, components of our supply chain design. So, for example, we could add a new warehouse to be closer to our customers and provide them better service, and then hopefully drive more revenue. We could also invest in more inventory, put more stock on the shelf, give our customers more selection. And, therefore, they'll make more purchases. And, again, drive more revenue. We could add a production line and expand our manufacturing capacity, and produce more goods. And, again, drive more revenue. And you're seeing a theme here. We could also invest in a truck fleet and maybe provide better service than what our contract carriers could provide, or we can do it more efficiently. And, in this case, maybe not drive more revenue but reduce our costs by having our own fleet rather than contracting it out. So hopefully our investments will either drive more revenue or will reduce the ongoing expenses we have in our firm, and, therefore, allow us to make money, have positive cash flows. Our firm may be in a situation where it wants to reduce investments, where they may need capital and don't want to go raise it from debt holders. And, therefore, they want to reduce the investments that are required in the firm to free up capital. In that case, we may be doing some of the opposite of the investments. And that would be, instead of adding a warehouse, we'll close a warehouse. And, instead of adding inventory, we're going to reduce inventory. Instead of expanding our production and transportation, we may outsource it to other firms so that we don't even have to invest in assets at all. We don't have to own a fleet of trucks at all. We could outsource it to a transportation provider. Again, we'll pay them more in terms of expenses, but we won't have to have that operational investment in the assets. So there's a lot of decisions that are made whether we're going to invest or divest in assets in our firm. And then that raises the question, well, who decides which investments or divestments to make, and how do they do it? Well, who decides basically comes down to, who has the money? The corporate finance people are the managers of the money. They're the ones that raise the money, and therefore they determine how it's allocated. However, there's a nice quote from a very standard financial textbook used in corporate finance classes that emphasize that it's more than the finance specialists that are involved in these decisions, both in terms of not only in evaluating which ones are good, but also generating them. How do we come up with ideas for investment proposals? And this is the ongoing responsibility for all managers throughout the organization, not just the finance people. And so our ability to generate these supply chain designs is going to be key in coming up with good ideas for positive investments in the firm. But we will also need to understand how they will be evaluated. And that's what we're going to focus on during this week. I'll give you a little glimpse into how that evaluation process works as a pathway of where we're going. And that's how-- this answers the question, how do they decide what to invest in? There's usually a pretty standard process that corporate finance uses that begins by first estimating all of the relevant cash flows that are involved in this particular investment. Once we've estimated all of the cash flows, we calculate what's called a figure of merit to come up with a value of the particular investment over all. And then we compare that figure of merit, or that value, with some kind of an acceptance criterion. So if we look at this part of the larger diagram we saw earlier, the key to evaluating an investment is by starting by looking at all of these cash flows, here, and turning that into some kind of a figure of merit. And once we've combined them all together-- including the initial investment, here, that happens-- we combine all of these cash flows in the initial investment to come up with a figure of merit. And then we compare this with a criterion. And once we've compared it with that criterion we can make a decision. And that's usually a pretty transparent process inside many firms and that the corporate finance people will do in a process called capital budgeting. This process will also often be applied toward projects, which may not be an investment in assets-- physical assets-- but may require our firm to expend some money in terms of human resources, for example, to conduct a project. So your supply chain design may not require any physical assets, but it may require time from staff. And that decision of whether to allocate budget for that staffing and those human resources may follow a similar process in terms of evaluation. So to sum up this segment, I want to close with one more quote from that finance textbook that was mentioned earlier that describes this broader process and the importance of the different aspects. So the calculation of the figure of merit, which we mentioned was a second part of the evaluation process, requires an understanding of the time value of money and a basic understanding of algebra. And we'll talk about those in the next lesson. But it's often more difficult-- even though algebra may be tricky-- it's often more difficult to determine what are the relevant cash flows with a particular given investment. And that's what we'll focus on in this lesson one, here. We'll spend a lot of time talking about different cash flows in our supply chain, which ones are relevant, and how we assemble them together to create the basis for calculating our figure of merit, which is what we'll discuss in more detail in lesson two.
