OK. We've created the baseline models. We've calibrated Baseline 1 to meet the actual history. We're within roughly 10%. We then did Baseline 2 to see how well-- if I adhere to the policies, what would that do to the solution? And then we created Baseline 3, which said what if we do an optimal allocation of cities to DC's. So we've run all those. We're comfortable. Now we're going to have fun. This is where we're going to run different scenarios. This is where we test different policies, different structures. And this is where the value of the model comes out. So in this video segment, I'm going to run four quick scenarios just to see what happens if I reduce the number of Distribution Centers. So this is the last model we'd run, Baseline 3. And remember what I did is I forced all of the DC's to be open by using my P_MIN and P_MAX values, set those both equal to 5. But I let the system, the optimization determine how to distribute, so that's down here in cells B20 to M24. And we pointed out before that it was already recommending split allocations here, where Brattleboro gets supported by both the Nashua DC and the Springfield DC. All right. But what happens if I restrict it a little more, I force P_MIN and P_MAX equal to 4? So now only four DC's are open. I'm going to close that Providence DC. It's a little further away. It's on the expensive end. You can see why it would do it. And what happened? Well, we have more splitting. Brattleboro is still split. But it looks like New London gets split by multiple DC's as well. We're hitting some tighter capacity here. The smaller DC's are both fully out. It's funny how we hit those to capacity before we start using any of Providence. And that's because we have that fixed cost. It's trying to use as much of the existing facilities before you even tap open one of those other ones. Let's keep going. And so now I'm reducing it to 3 DC's. And all I'm doing is ratcheting it down a little bit. And what happens now? Well, the 3 DC's it opens, it's going to operate them up to capacity. It's going to do anything it can to not open a new facility. And in this case, it's restricting it. Notice it's using the two smaller ones versus using even just two of the bigger ones. And you can see it's starting to increase the number of split deliveries. Those two are still there. And we're still-- now we're just limited to 3 DC's. So if I ratchet it down again, what if I go to 2 DC's? And you can see what it really does, it goes down and it says, OK, Worcester and Boston, those are the 2 DC's that are opened. And it looks like Worcester's going to serve everything down south. And it looks like Boston is serving everything north, Concord, Manchester, Nashua, Portsmouth, and then, wow, interestingly, Providence, which is way south. So it's kind of a split. But we'll look at the cost in a second to compare them. But I just want to see what happens. And all I'm doing is ratcheting down the number of DC's. Let's go one more. If I go to one, and all I'm doing here is setting the P_MIN, the P_MAX to 1. And I'll get this. Oh. What did I do wrong? It says it can't find a feasible solution. Well, we probably could have figured that out, right? If I look at the capacity for all the DC's, I know there's 2,000 units going through. No single DC can handle that, so I'm asking the optimization to do something it can't do. There's no feasible solution. So the fewest number of DC's given these capacity numbers is two. So hopefully that makes sense. Whenever you have capacity constraints, you get this a lot, because you might set something up that there is no feasible solution. And that's when you'll get this warning. And this is a signal for you to say, OK, what did I do wrong? Trace your steps back, and the main culprit is always going to be these capacity constraints. They cause a lot of those problems. All right. So I did four scenarios, and actually the fourth one doesn't count because it was infeasible. And so let's see how they look. So I've got here a chart. And in the table, I'm comparing Baseline 3, which makes sense that that's the one I'm comparing, because I've optimally assigned, and it's really saying it's the five DC solution. So I'm comparing five DC's to four to three to two. And we don't even worry about this, because I can't go down to one. So what can we say? Let's look at it. Where's the big change? Well, we look at the lowest cost and it looks like the three DC provides the lowest cost. Why? Well, as I reduce the number of DC's, as you would expect the cost for fixed cost for DC's goes down. Duh, right? We expect that. I'm forcing that to happen. Similarly, in the opposite direction, look what happens to the outbound cost. Outbound cost in green goes up. And it'll continually go up as I reduce the number of DC's. Makes sense, because I'm further away from my customers. This is also reflected in my level of service. You can see that it drops from 87% down to 65% when I get down to two DC's. So that also follows the same thing. You can look at the average distance increases as I reduce the number of DC's, so I'm getting further away. Now what else happens? Look at the inbound transportation cost. It's this row. And it's in the purple or I guess the purple-bluish. It decreases as I go from five DC's to four DC's to 3 DC's and then it jumps back up right when I go to two. That's because I'm forcing it to go to these two further away DC's. But we talked about this. As I decrease the number of DC's, my transportation cost for inbound will go down, because I'm consolidating, going to fewer locations. That makes sense. What doesn't change too much? Well, the DC handling doesn't change too much. Manufacturing hasn't changed, because I'm still only coming from one plant. But as I look at this, I get an understanding of what the different scenarios do, what impact I have by closing or opening the number of DC's. And I can look and say, well, you know what, three might be the right number. But just realize that this is based on the capacity estimates that I came up with as well as the costs. So you would want to do some sensitivity there as well to make sure this isn't just a fluke if I have some bad data in there. One last aside before we go on to the more advanced scenarios. Bar charts. You're going to see a ton of bar charts. They're great. They give great information. And whenever you use them, do something like this. This is the same data showing a couple more of the baseline scenarios, and it's showing the total cost. And this is a nice thing, because I can see how they go. And I see, wow, that Scenario 2, limiting to 3 DC's, that's a reduction from roughly 90,000 a week to 70,000 a week. Resist the temptation to do this, to take the x-axis and move it up to 65,000 and show something like this. Because if I look at this chart in the lower right, it looks like this option 3 is-- wow, it's like a 10th of what this Baseline 1 is, when in fact, you know, it's about 10%, not even that. So it's very important that you never move the baseline from zero. Keep it at zero when you use bar charts. If you move it up, it distorts the fact. It makes this savings, this gap right here, looks tremendously big, because you're cutting off-- you're essentially going everything above this line. All right. Next we're going to dive in to more scenarios, little more advanced scenarios.
