In this lesson, we're going to talk about distribution channel strategies. That is, how do I get my finished goods from my manufacturing plant all the way to the final consumer? Now we spent a lot of time talking about supply chains, defining them. We should be pretty comfortable now that we're designing the flow, the physical flow, the information flow, and the financial flow. And we know it's between at least two parties. And that, in fact, it usually has multiple parties in a supply chain and they can have complex and non-linear relationships. We spent a lot of time looking at how the manufacturing process works with production planning, the MRP process, as well as the bill of materials, all those things that are required to make a product. But now what we want to do is we want to look at the downstream. Now we looked a little bit at DRP, at the Distribution Resource Planning. But what I really want to do now is focus on the channels. So what I'm showing here right now is one channel of getting bicycles from the manufacturer to the end customer or consumer. And there's three tiers there, three echelons to get to the customer-- the manufacturer, the wholesaler, the retailer, finally to the customer. Now there could be other channels. You could go straight to a retailer that goes to the customer. Or you could go straight to the customer itself. So the choice between these different channels is known as distribution channel strategies. Now there's a whole literature and a discipline on the marketing side-- how do I segment my customers for these strategies, things along those lines. What I want to focus on in this lesson is the physical component, the physical flow. So when we talk about distribution channels, we have to define exactly what we mean, because in marketing, it can mean something a little bit different. So when I say a distribution channel, I mean the flow path by which all goods and services travel from the original vendor to the end consumer. And its the pathway that payments are made from the end consumer to the original vendor. Now when I say the original vendor here, I mean of the finished product. So I assume the product is finished and I'm distributing it out. Now there are certain players. There are actually four types of players in these distribution channels. The most obvious one is you, the consumer. Now sometimes you'll see the literature say customer. I like consumer because that kind of grounds it a little more because every person in the supply chain has a customer-- it's the next person in their supply chain. But there's really only one end consumer. So these are the people who buy your product. Now the next most common player here is the retailer. We all know these. We've all heard of Walmart, Flipkart in India, B2W in Brazil, Amazon-- obviously the largest internet retailer out there. Reliance Retail as well, a very large retailer, and Apple and Starbucks. Now Apple you don't think of as a retailer, but you can buy many of their products online. Starbucks as well has those fast service restaurant retail outlets. The next common player is the manufacturer. And these are the people who make stuff. P&G and Unilever for consumer packaged goods, Goodyear for tires, Toyota for cars, AB InBev for beer and other beverages. But notice that Amazon, Apple and Starbucks are listed there as well. In fact, there are companies who can be both. They manufacture products and they're retailers. You can buy their products from them. Apple has its own stores and we'll talk more about that. Starbucks manufactures its coffee and other products and sells it. Amazon started as a pure internet retailer and started making product, like the Kindle, the Echo, and other products. So they're really both now-- a manufacturer and a retailer. The fourth type of player though, is one that not many of you have heard of. You might have heard of a wholesaler or a distributor, but chances are you've never heard of these companies, or you might have heard of one or two of them. So these are the middlemen. These are companies that purchase products in large quantities. They consolidate, they assemble, and they resell to retailers and others usually in certain industries or segments. So Sysco delivers food, distributes food to small to medium sized restaurants. McKesson for pharmaceuticals. C&S Wholesale Grocers does what you would think. They are a wholesaler for grocery stores. They'll sell anything you need in the store, mainly to smaller sized retailers. Rees is the largest beer distributor in the United States. They distribute 150 million cases of beer a year. Brenntag is the German distributor. And WPG Holdings is a Taiwanese electrical wholesaler and distributor. So you have all these companies that you've probably never heard of because they're B to B-- business to business. They usually take product or receive product from manufacturers and sell them to retailers or to other manufacturers. So based on these four types, we can look at three different types of channels. There is the wholesaler channel, where the manufacturer distributes to the wholesaler or the distributor. I'll use those interchangeably. There are some fine distinctions, but I'll use them interchangeably here. And then a product goes to the retailer, and the consumer goes to buy the product. So you can think of wine in the United States as having this wholesaler channel. It's a three tier distribution channel. By law, a manufacturer cannot sell the beer directly. They have to go through a wholesaler to a retailer. Then you can think of a channel that's direct from the manufacturer to the retailer. And you can think of most CPG, Consumer Packaged Good, companies follow this approach. Now there's nothing that says the manufacturer and the retailer have to be different companies. Think back to Apple. Apple will sell its product in its stores that it manufactured. And there are many other examples there. Amazon does the same thing, Starbucks-- so there's nothing that says that the manufacturer and the retailer have to be different companies. Then you can think of the direct-to-consumer market. And probably the most famous example for this initially was the Dell model, where you order your computer online directly from the manufacturer and it comes down to you. Now you could argue, well, they're really a retailer. But the way it was initially sent, they were almost just a pure manufacturer, where you were getting access to your order and it was going straight through you, no intermediate retailer stops. So that's just a quick overview of distribution channel strategies. We're going to dive a little deeper going forward in the next segment. So what I want to achieve in this whole lesson though, were three things-- I want to talk about distribution channel strategies a little deeper, focusing on the physical flow. Then I'll talk about omni-channel distribution, something that's really upending a lot of the retail industry across the world. And then I'll talk about reverse supply chains, reverse logistics, because that comes in and is very much required when you have an omni-channel distribution system. So let's get started.
