In this segment, we finally get to discuss figures of merit and acceptance criteria. And why do I say finally? Well, in considering our investment evaluation process, we've been focused entire lesson one on this first step of estimating the relevant cash flows. And that's a difficult step, but we now get to consider these figures of merit and acceptance criterion in order to make decisions about these investments. So what is a figure of merit? It is basically a single number that when you boil down the investment, in terms of its economic value, we can boil it down to one number. And then this number can be compared with the criterion that's established by the firm in order to make that decision. It's important to note here that this is established by the firm. This is something each individual firm will determine, based on its discussion with its investors. There's no global criterion that you would compare it against. In addition, there's several different options for figures of merit that we can use and then the associated criteria that go with them. So we're going to begin in this segment by considering a couple of simple back of the envelope options and then move on later in the lesson to consider some more advanced ones. In order to introduce these figures of merit, we're going to have an example here. And in this case, we've got an energy component manufacturer called Plata Solar. I don't know if you've noticed my naming conventions for companies. They're all based on river names that are not Amazon, because that one's already taken by a big company. So Plata Solar is considering new automation equipment to reduce its cost per setup in its manufacturing process by $1,000 for each setup. This equipment cost $30,000, it lasts three years, and it doesn't have any salvage value. So over three years, we're going to have to replace it after three years. Plata currently makes 13 setups each year, the tax rate is 30%, and I would assume to use straight line depreciation in this example. So given what we learned in lesson one, you should be able to determine the relevant cash flows, and then we can move on and finally consider whether the investment is worthwhile or not. So why don't you maybe pause for moment, pull out your template on free cash flows, and determine the relevant cash flows for this example. And then we'll move forward. All right, so if you've taken this example and considered the relevant cash flows, you might have come up with these projections. So we have our equipment upfront. This automation equipment cost $30,000, so that shows up in our net capital expenditures. And it'll show up as an investment in this first year down here. We have 13 setups each year, each costing us $1,000, and we're saving that. We're reducing it per setup up of $1,000. So 13 times 1,000 gives us the $13,000. And it's recurring. Each year we have setups we're reducing over that three year period. There's no salvage value at the end. So we don't have any, you know, any salvage at the end of this process. We do have depreciation, though, of the equipment. And it depreciates down to 0. So it's $10,000 each year. And so that will affect our-- reduce our EBIT, therefore, reduce our taxes, which are relevant cash flow. And we get our NOPAT here at $2,100 each year. And we add back in that depreciation, because it's not a cash flow. So at the bottom line, we have return of $12,100 for each of the three years following our investment, and a quick back of the envelope assessment, at least we bring back over $36,000 on this $30,000 investment. It's at least worth considering. So let's keep these free cash flows here at the bottom and consider our first figure of merit. And that's the payback period. Payback period is fairly intuitive, and it's what it sounds like. It's the time until the cumulative cash flows pay back and are equal to our initial investment. So if we look at this example here, we can kind of guess that it's already, you know, $24,200 over the first two years, it's but yet $36,000 at the end of this year, so it's sometime between year two and three. And we're going to have to compare that with a criterion to see if the payback period is less than a certain cut-off point. So let's assume within Plata Solar that our payback cut-off is three years, and we can calculate the payback period. Since, so we get $12,100 each year, we can just divide the $30,000 investment by $12,100, and that gives us 2.48 years. Since 2.48 is less than 3, which is our criterion, we would say, this is a good investment. We can accept this investment. It would be a good investment based on the payback period. So, in considering this payback period, it's pretty straightforward to understand. It's very simple. It gives you a rough measure of the risk of the investment, because if things payback sooner, they're less risky. So if we reduce our cut-off, we'll take less riskier investments. So that could be something to consider. However, it doesn't consider the timing of the cash flows. So let's consider that we had in our firm, for the same $30,000 investment, there may have been some other options we could have done to invest in assets. And maybe they would have returned $24,200 in the first year, in this case here, and then $12,100 in the third year, or maybe that $24,200 came in the second year. Each of these would be equivalent to what we have in our automation equipment example, because we get $24,200 in the first two years and the same rate in the third year, so they will all be 2.48 years of the payback period. However, we would really prefer to get this cash up front, because we could reinvest it in other assets in our firm, or even put it in the bank and get some interest. So this is actually a preferred option among these three. In addition the payback period does not consider cash flows that happen after the payback period. So for example, if we had yet another investment of $30,000 that could have returned the $12,100 each year like ours-- our automation equipment-- but then had an additional $100,000 at the, beyond the payback period, that may be even more attractive than any of the other options presented here. And it also has the same payback period of 2.4 years, even though that investment may be much more attractive. So there are some weaknesses in the payback period, even though it's very simple to calculate. Another back of the envelope simple figure of merit is a return on assets. Return on assets is a very common ratio that's considered when doing financial analysis of a firm. And that's a simply taking the net income of a firm and dividing by its total assets. And the acceptance criterion here would be is if we should invest if the return on assets is greater than the target return. So our investors may be expecting 15% return on assets each year. So if we were then to calculate the net income, we would first take from our free cash flow template our EBIT minus the depreciation and taxes to give us the net income, which, in this case, ends up being the same as our NOPAT. So that net income, the numerator, is $2,100 each year. Our total assets will be our investment in the equipment, which is $30,000 upfront, but is depreciated over time, so as we depreciate it, those total assets go down. As a result, the return on assets the first year is 2,100 divided by 30,000 gives us 7%. But in the future years, as our assets are depreciated, our return on investments goes up. Averaging it over the three years, we get 12.8%, which, in this case, is less than 15%. So if our investors are expecting 15% return on assets, we would not invest in this equipment. So one weakness of the return on assets is that, if you remember, depreciation is not really a cash flow. So net income incorporates this, but we don't have an adjustment to take it back out, and it's not a relevant cash flow. So it's something we probably shouldn't consider in our investments. In addition, this return on assets figure of merit also suffers from the same issues with timing. And so let's give an example here. What if the timing of the cash flows changed? And this is the base example here on the right-- up top. What if we had the same magnitude in 39 setups, and the same net income as a result of $6,300 over the three years. But instead of having them even, 13 each year, we do 12, 12, and 15. So there's more setups in the third year. What happens is that means that our return on assets goes down significantly in the first two years but is very large in the third year, and, on average, is now 15%-- over 15%. So if we just adjusted the cash flows, this would actually say it's a good investment using the return on assets, even though we're actually postponing the returns to a much later time period, which, as we discussed earlier, we'd rather get cash earlier so we could reinvest it than to get it later. And, in fact, if you flip it around and put those 15 set-ups in the first year and our large cash flow initially, which is what we would in general prefer-- to have cash earlier-- our average return on assets goes down. So the return on assets also suffers from not considering the timing of cash flows. It is a positive figure of merit to consider, because it is very linked to the financial statements and the ratios that investors may be using to analyze our firm, but it doesn't consider cash flows. It's based on accounting calculations, for example, depreciation in this case. So it isn't really considering the relevant cash flows, and it doesn't consider the timing of cash flows. Notice that both of these figures of merit have the weakness of not considering the time of cash flows. So we're going to consider figures of merit going forward that do consider the timing of cash flows. And in the next segment, we'll talk about the time value of money.
