Hi, and welcome to the supply chain finance module. In this segment, we'll focus on components of the financial statements, specifically the income statement and the balance sheet. Now, the financial statements of the firm include many, many different types and documents. They include those that are presented to investors, those that are presented to the general public, and those that are used internally in the firm, generated many cases by the accounting department. Those are often used for helping the business to make decisions. The ones that we're going to be speaking about today are going to be the income statement and the balance sheet. These documents can be found in the 10k. They can be found in the annual report, and they can also be found-- or at least, components of that would be found in the statement of changes in financial position. Again, there are many reports. In this segment, we're focusing on the income statement and the balance sheet. Now, the income statement really lists all the flows of cash in and out of the firm, and it's quite simple. Because there are really three components of the income statement. We have revenues. That represents all the monies that come into the firm. You have expenses. Those are the monies that go out of the firm, and then you have profit. That's what's left over afterwards. Now, revenues goes by a number of different terms. You see them sometimes as gross sales, turnover proceeds. Expenses has many different components. The main ones that we'll talk about today will be the cost of goods sold and an operating expense. And then profit goes by a number of different terms, and of course, there are variations of different ways to think and look at profit. As we see listed here, sometimes it's called income. Another segment of that or one way to look at it is gross margin. There's gross profit, again, many of the others. EBIT and EBITDA, EBIT standing for Earnings Before Interest and Tax, and EBITDA standing for Earnings Before Interest Tax Depreciation and Amortization. You'll probably hear that if you're traveling around in the financial circles. The operating expense element that is most important that we will think about in the supply chain will be the cost of goods sold. This represents all the direct cost that contribute to the production of a particular product, which basically entails the materials and the labor that are used to produce the product. It does not include what are called indirect expenses, meaning expenses that cannot be directly attributed to the production of one particular product. These would be things like distribution costs or sales force costs. These are generally speaking not included in COGS, or Cost of Goods Sold. Now, there's a variation of cost of goods sold that's called the cost of revenue, and cost of revenue, it's slightly different. And the distinction here is that the cost of revenue includes those costs beyond the production of the product, beyond the materials and the labor, and includes distribution and marketing. You'll see it represented in various ways, but most of the time you'll see COGS. Another important element of the operating expense is what's called SG&A, or Sales General Administration. There's really two components there. Those are the sales expenses. Those are the expenses that are directly linked to the sale of the product, and of course, you could imagine that would be the cost of the sales personnel, the cost for the vehicle that they might be driving, the cost for travel expenses, the cost for them using a phone, cost for promotion, advertising, all things associated with sales. The other element of SG&A is general administration. All right, those are going to be the expenses that would be the managerial expenses or any kind of cost that the firm incurs that are not directly attributable to the production of the product or the sale and distribution of the product. This would include things like utilities or include cost for insurance, or the attorneys, or the finance department. That's what's included in SG&A. There's another group of expenses called other, and this can include a lot of different components, really depending on what's important within the firm. Sometimes you'll see it as depreciation. Sometimes you'll see amortization, and sometimes you'll see R&D. It's really up to the firm what they include in other, and how they represent that, and for that matter, how it's shown in the income statement. Depreciation very directly an expense that accounts for the use of a tangible asset. Amortization is accounting for the use of an intangible asset, particularly goodwill, and goodwill is nothing more than the monies that are spent in excess of the book value of a particular asset that the firm purchases. So if a firm pays $1 billion to acquire a company and its book value is $100 million, well, they just earned themselves $900 million worth of goodwill. We can talk about that at another time, but again, this is just another potential list of an expense. Let's look at an example or two to give you an idea of what an income statement might look like. Income statement for Intel 2014, starts with net revenue, top line. We often hear the term top line. It means the revenue. It's the monies that you bring in before any expenses. We see here it's $55 billion, and of course, the other components are just as we've spoke about. In their case, they're showing the cost of goods sold, the cost of sales, and you deduct the cost of sales. Remember you would get gross margin. Below that there are a series of other expenses that represent the operating expenses. In this case, they show R&D. They show marketing general administration, and then they include amortization. They don't show depreciation in this particular case. The result is you have an income before taxes, and then the bottom line-- what's left over at the end-- is their net income. We could see something similar for General Motors. In their case, they show the cost of revenue. Remember we talked about a different way to represent the cost of goods sold. This includes distribution costs, but here we see they list their expenses. And in their expenses they similarly include R&D. In their case, they have SG&A, but they don't list amortization and the depreciation. The second report that we wanted to talk about in this segment is the balance sheet. Now, in comparison with the income statement, the balance sheet reports the financial condition of the firm representing all the things that it owes-- that it owns rather, meaning things of valu-- and all that it owes, obligations to pay somebody, at one point in time. And there are really two categories. There's assets and liabilities. We can think about assets as something the firm owns, something that has value, and we can think about the liabilities as an obligation to pay someone. Or another way to think of it is, as represented here, a claim against the assets. Now, two things important to remember about balance sheet, that assets always equal liabilities. And then the data that is represented on the balance sheet is always representing the book value. It's whatever was paid for the particular item. It does not record the market value. Now, there are certain assets on the balance sheet that we in the supply chain are going to care a lot more about, and that's going to be things such as inventory. I just want to recognize that there are different ways of valuing inventory. One's called LIFO. One's called FIFO. We'll address that in another segment. Let's look at a balance sheet as an example. In this particular case, we see that the assets are listed on the top, and we see the liabilities listed on the bottom. Sometimes you'll see them listed next to each other, assets on one side. Then you'll see liabilities on the other side, kind of like the balance sheet. You want to make sure you have a balance. Something's wrong. Right side is in balance with the left. We see again assets on the top, liabilities on the bottom, and then at the bottom, let's look at this. And in Intel's particular case for 2014, they list $91 billion worth of assets. Well, guess what? The amount of liabilities is equal. Remember, assets always equals liabilities. And then we see also that there's a current assets and a current liability segment within each. Now, just as we were saying, let's talk about the assets and the particular components of the assets. There's really two parts of that. There's current assets, and then we have the long term assets. The current assets are those assets, those things of value, that the firm has that can be converted into cash within the next accounting period, usually considered a month for the purposes of paying against the current obligations. And that would include things as we see here, cash, accounts receivable, inventory, and then you have other smaller elements in there. But primarily it's cash, accounts receivable, and inventory. Longer term assets are those things that have long term value associated with the firm and are not readily converted into cash. That will include a factory that a company might own, or property, or big pieces of machinery and equipment. It also includes things like goodwill, which we mentioned earlier, or any other kinds of fixed assets equipment that the firm may have. On the other side of the assets is of course the liabilities, and these, as we mentioned, similarly, they have current liabilities. Then they have long term liabilities, but there's another element and that's called the equity. Similar to the assets, the current liabilities are obligations to be paid in the next accounting period. Of course, that would be accounts payable. You purchase something from a supplier. You need to pay them, and then you're going to usually have to pay them within the next period. And then there's a couple of other smaller items that would be included in the current liabilities. Long term liabilities includes the long term debt. You have a mortgage on your house. Well, similarly, firms have mortgages. They have long term loans that they have to pay, not due in the next period, but in the future periods. And then this other element in the liability side of the balance sheet is equity, and that really represents the ownership of the firm. And it starts off with paid in capital. This is cash received from organizations, individuals as initial investments in the firm, and then the value of the firm increases or decreases depending on the retained earnings that are added to or deducted from by the net income of the firm. And we'll talk about that connection in just a moment. Let's talk about supply chain transactions that affect both the income statement and the balance sheet. Let's assume a company sells a product for $10,000 in cash, and the product cost $2,000 to produce and deliver. How will this impact the income statement and the balance sheet? Well, let's look at the income statement impact first. Well, first, we'd see a revenue increase of $10,000, because the company has sold the product for $10,000. That is recognized as a sale. There's a cost of $2,000, and that's reflected in part of the cost of goods sold. And then the net, of course, of that is that you have $8,000. $10,000 minus the $2,000, and you get $8,000. Now, on the balance sheet, we see that the cash current asset would increase by $10,000, because the company sold the product but they got cash. If they sold the product and it was going to be paid next month, that would show up as a current asset of an accounts receivable. But in this case, it's cash, because we see the monies immediately. The inventory would reduce by $2,000, and the retained earnings would increase by $8,000. That's the connection between the income statement and the balance sheet. The change in the net income is reflected as the change in the retained earnings. Let's look at that as in an example using Amazon from 2014. Again, a change in the retained earnings from one balance sheet statement to another is equal to the net income over this time period between those two different time phases. And that is the connection between the income statement and the balance sheet. If we look at Amazon's balance sheet from 2014, we see they had retained earnings of $1,949,000, but the prior year, they had a higher amount of retained earnings, $2,190,000. So that effectively is a change, a drop, of $241 million. Well, if we look at the income statement, what are we going to see? Well, we're going to see-- in the income statement, we'll see a drop of $241 million. Again, the net income, the change in the net income, is reflected as a change in the retained earnings. Let's talk about key points. The income statement provides a summary of the flows in and out of the firm, so all the cash that comes in and all the cash that goes out over a period of time. And this really reflects the performance of the firm in terms of its ability to generate income. And of course, the difference between their ability to generate income and produce a loss is their ability to make sure that they bring in more revenue versus the expenses that they have. The balance sheet really gives them a snapshot, just a picture in one point in time, of the assets that the firm has and all of the obligations that the firms have at one particular point in time. Together, these two statements provide a useful but not a complete assessment of the performance of the firm. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use the discussion area. And i look forward to seeing you in future sessions. Thank. You.
