So the first one is the tactical buy. Here there are many transactions, but the value is low. So transaction costs are high relative to the value of the item. So what's the main strategy? We want to lower the number of transactions. So we want somehow to consolidate transactions. So there are many ways of doing it. One can use a procurement card that people in the company buy, but you pay only once a month to the-- it's like a credit card, basically. One can use supplier-managed inventory or consignment inventory or vendor-managed inventory. It goes by different names. The idea here is that assume that the retailer simply, quote unquote, "rents" shelf space to the supplier, and the supplier is responsible for filling the space and the display and making sure there are enough items there all the time. Can also think about system contracting. You want to put an entire category of items or a whole system, rather than components. So you lower the number of transactions. And also you want to make sure that you use electronic data interchange or other digital means to communicate with the suppliers, because otherwise the fixed costs of every transaction are very high. Let's now look at the leverage buy. This is where you have generic items, but there is high volume. This is where you run auctions. Typically, it's where much of the dollars are spent. And the type of auction that you want to do here is sealed-bid first-price auction. This is the standard procurement auction. It's very important to minimize total end cost, the total cost of what you buy. So you have to be ready to switch supplier based on total landed costs. You have to measure total landed costs, which includes the transportation and all the other things that go into the cost, not just the cost of the item. And you have to be ready to switch supplier based on the total landed cost. You want to continuously analyze the supply base and be aware of the supplier, same idea. You don't want long-term contracts. You want to have the contract relatively short and flexible so you can get out of them when an opportunity presents itself. Then you want to leverage volume. How do you leverage volume? You may want to consider a purchase across divisions. These are, in many cases, generic items. So many divisions in your company are buying them. You want all the divisions to buy them together. You even want to add some volume to the suppliers so they'll give you even a better price. And you don't want only to concentrate the purchase or consolidate the purchase across divisions. You may want even to organize a consortium of several non-competing companies and create what's called horizontal collaboration, that several companies may buy as one. There are many examples of this in the marketplace. In any case, the strategy should always assure supply continuity. So you don't want to be in a position that the supplier can leave you. So this moderates how flexible and short-term you want to be. Let's talk now about the critical buy. The volumes are small, and there is a bottleneck. This may include some custom-designed tools, capital equipment, specialty support services, all kind of special items. Here the strategy would be to decrease product variety. You don't want the product to be unique and special. So you want to reduce the number of stock keeping units. And you want to standardize the items and the services as much as possible. You also want to develop a method to manage assets over their lifetime. This in many cases happens with capital expenditure, when you buy some big equipment and you have to manage it over a lifetime rather than keep buying new things. You always also want to qualify use product. You may want to keep using product for a long time. You may want to buy product from another division or another manufacturer. You want the ability to remanufacture. You don't want to go into the marketplace too often. To ensure availability, here you do want long-term contacts. And you do want high level of safety stock, in case something happens. It's not a big problem to have high level of safety stock here, because the items that-- you don't spend a lot of money on these. It's low spend. And so the inventory carrying costs are not going to be too high. You always have to look for alternatives. Always keep looking for alternatives. Look for substitute items, and look for alternative suppliers. Also, in these cases, it's not clear what the cost is, and you may want to conduct a so-called engineering should-cost analysis. You let your engineers model the drivers of the cost. And to use internal comparisons, it's basically an engineering analysis of what goes into the program and how much should it cost, so you are not totally held hostage to the supplier. Finally, let's look at the strategic buy. Here are items or services that give you competitive advantage. Here is where you want to establish partnerships. You don't want to establish partnerships with your screw supplier or something like this. You want to establish partnership only in cases of strategic suppliers that give you competitive advantage. This is where you are looking for real partnerships, which should not be conducted for every sourcing. You want the partnership agreement to be at all levels. So not only your procurement people are talking to their salespeople, but your engineers are talking to their engineers, your CEO is talking to their CEO, and so forth and so on. You definitely want long-term contracts, in many cases with gain sharing and revenue sharing, because the supplier may come up with some innovative product that will help you sell more cars, more product, what have you, and you may want to have the supplier have a stake in the sales performance. So you do some gain sharing or revenue sharing agreement in this case. You can also get to join product development when both of you are developing new products together. You operate in all kinds of innovation initiatives. And in this case, there's even co-investment in many cases. You may buy part of the supplier. The supplier may invest in you. You also should think about possible vertical integration, in some sense, buying the supplier. You want it for risk reduction, because now you have the technology. You want it for sustainability, because now you control to make sure that you are not surprised by some practices of the supplier. And you can get hold of the innovation that the supplier is known for. Now, a word of caution. When you buy a supplier, its customers will come with it. And some of their customers may be your competitors, and they may disappear. So you have to think about it. An example of a strategic relationship is the relationship between AT&T and Apple when Apple just came up with the iPhone. For quite a long time, AT&T was the only carrier that carried the iPhone. And Apple got a percentage of the call revenue while AT&T was the only network that was selling the iPhone with the wireless service. So AT&T was unique. They were able to sell a lot of iPhones and sign a lot more customers. But in return, Apple was sharing in the gains and sharing with the revenue from the wireless minutes that AT&T was selling. So let's stop here, and we will go to the next segment.
