Hi. Welcome to the Supply Chain Finance module. This segment will focus on inventory valuation methods, specifically last in, first out and first in, first out methods, more commonly known as LIFO and FIFO. Now, to understand the importance of inventory valuation, we only need to start to understand the importance of inventory. Inventory is fundamental to business because it is what is used to serve customer demand. Now, inventory is also used as a buffer to demand and supply variation, and it also enables immediate response and often sustained response in the aftermath of some disruptions. So inventory enables a business a serve its mission. Now, inventory is one of the primary assets our supply chain managers are charged with managing, and as such, it is critically important that we as supply chain managers understand those assets in order to best manage them and utilize them to serve the business needs. Now, if you're going to manage these inventory assets, you need to be able to keep track of those assets. In order to keep track of them, you actually have to measure them. Now, how does one measure inventory? Your first thought may be to say that, well, maybe we should measure inventory in terms of units because most of the time, customers buy finished goods and products in units, right? While that is true in most cases, it won't due to measure units on a financial report. Let's recall the money measurement concept, which tells us that money is the common measure. Therefore, we measure inventory in monetary terms. And so instead of counting units, we're going to be counting inventory in terms of money. Now, there are a number of different methods used for accounting for the cost of inventory, and we see a handful of them here, including several different averages, simple, weighted, and moving average, for example. But the ones we're going to be speaking about are the last two methods listed here, which are the last in, first out or LIFO and the first in in, first out inventory valuation methods. Before we explain LIFO and FIFO further, let's understand how the sale of a product is recorded, the transaction that involves inventory valuation. Whenever the company sells a product it, receives revenue or the promise of revenue, a receivable. In order to record that transaction, the accountant has to match the revenue of that product sale with the cost of the product. What is the cost of the product? It is whatever has been built into the inventory valuation up to that point in time. And for the products that are purchased and resold, the LIFO and FIFO method are two suitable options for inventory valuation. Depending on the method chosen, that cost will vary depending on which inventory valuation methods we use. But a central concept for you to understand is that with some of the inventory valuation methods, the product flows are different than the financial flows. If we use the last in, first out method, we use the cost of the items that were purchased most recently, meaning the last received in. And then when we're using the first in, first out method, we're using that cost of the products that were purchased originally, or the oldest products on the books. We'll talk more in detail about that in just a moment. But importantly, you must understand that the physical product flows are not exactly the same as financial flows, meaning that what happens in the factory or warehouse is not exactly what we record in the financial books. In the financial books, we want to keep track of which items came in first and which items came in last because they're going to be recorded at different costs. In the factory, all the same materials are treated as being the same, meaning that they are not used in the order received but in order of convenience. That's most of the time. Assume that a factory worker receives 10 units of a particular item on one day, and the following week receives another 10 units. All of those units are going to a bin. And the first one that the worker pulls out are not necessarily going to be the ones that were purchased earlier. In many cases, it's a random grab. And in most cases, the order of the use of those materials doesn't impact the quality or performance of the product. So while the factory and warehouses use materials of the same type that were received at different times independent of the actual receipt of the materials, the financial books record the use of the materials in actual order of receipt. Let's start with last in, first out inventory valuation. LIFO is a valuation method used mainly in the US because there are some specific tax laws that permit accounting for inventory values that effectively defer the payment of taxes until a later point in time. Using the LIFO or last in, first out method, the accountant uses the most recent cost of inventory when matching the revenue of a sale with the cost of the inventory. That means that even though the company may have inventory on hand that was purchased at a different, usually lower, cost, the accountant matches the revenue using the most recent cost of inventory. In most cases the cost of materials increases over time, and therefore, using LIFO, it is possible that the inventory remaining on the books will be worth more than actually what is recorded. Or put another way, the inventory on hand would have a higher replacement value than what is represented on the financial books. So oftentimes inventory valuations using LIFO may be undervalued. So keep in mind that if we buy 100 units of a particular raw product or raw material on January 1st and we buy another 100 units on March 1st, but we use only 50 units, if we're using the last in, first out method, we're using the cost for 50 units from the March 1st purchase, which means that the items that remain in inventory-- all 100 units from January and 50 units from March-- will be valued at the purchase price at those particular times. Presumably, the items purchased in January were purchased at a lower cost, again assuming that the raw material purchase prices increase over time. Let's contrast LIFO with first in, first out inventory or FIFO valuation. Like LIFO, it is a valuation method, but it is used broadly-- not just in the United States, but around the world. FIFO uses the oldest cost or the cost associated with materials that were purchased at the earliest point in time when matching the revenue from a sale with the inventory cost. What that means is that the materials that remain in inventory on the books are those with costs that were incurred most recently. Put another way, the costs that remain in inventory are the costs that are associated with the most recent purchase. What does that mean to the inventory valuation? It means that inventory valued using FIFO will likely be valued at market replacement costs or the cost for us to go out in the marketplace right now and replace that inventory. Because effectively, the inventory on hand, at least on the books, is what was purchased most recently at market prices. Now, in use, financial reports will be different depending on which one of these methods are used. Using the LIFO method will likely report a higher cost than FIFO because the costs that are being matched with the revenue are the costs from the last in or most recent purchase. This assumes that material costs are increasing over time. You've heard me say that a few times. It's important to keep that in mind. Well, when you have a higher cost associated with the inventory, that means you'll have a lower profit to report. And with a lower profit, then you, of course, will have a lower tax obligation, at least in the current period. When using FIFO, it's the exact opposite. FIFO reports a lower cost associated with this sale because it assumes the materials that are associated with that sale are the ones that were purchased at the earliest point in time. Again, with our assumption that material costs increase over time, those costs would be lower, which means that there will be a higher profit reported. That, then, means that there will be a higher current tax obligation. Let's go through an example to illustrate this. Assume that a company buys a raw material for a product, and it buys it at three different points in time-- January 15th, February 1st, and March 1st. And at each different purchase point, they buy 20 units. But note that the cost of unit-- each unit increases over time. So on January 15th, the cost was $5 per unit. On February 1st, the cost was $10 per unit. And on March 1st, the cost was $15 per unit. Now, let's also assume that the company sells 30 units at $20 each on April 1st. Using the FIFO method, the revenue for the firm is $600 having sold 30 units at $20 each. Now let's look at the cost using FIFO. With FIFO, we use the cost of the first in materials, so we need to identify the cost of the first 30 units. The first 30 units purchased includes materials purchased on January 15th-- that's 20 units-- and some purchased on February 1st. So we use 20 units from January, which were purchased at $5 each, and then another 10 units from the February 1st purchase, which were purchased at $10 each. That gives us a total cost of $200 and a net income of $400. Now, assume that there's a 20% tax rate, and therefore, the tax in that particular sale is $80. Given that, what is the value of the remaining inventory? Well, as we see here, we can calculate that. There are 10 units remaining from the February 1st purchase at the $10 price, so that's 10 units at $10, or $100. And then there's 20 units remaining at the $15 price from the March 1st, purchase or $300. The value of the remaining inventory is therefore $400. That's the $100 plus the $300. There is no inventory in the books remaining from the January 1st purchase. Those items were already used for the sale of the 30 units. Let's compare that with the LIFO method. Using the LIFO method, we have the same revenue of $600, but our costs are going to be different because we're going to use the different valuation method. Now, with LIFO, we used the cost of the last in materials, so we'll need to identify the cost of the most recently purchased, or last in, 30 units. The last 30 units purchased includes materials purchased on March 1st-- would be 20 units-- and some purchased on February 1st. So we use 20 units from1 March, which were purchased at $15 each, and then another 10 units from February st purchase, which were purchased at $10 each. That gives us a total cost of $400 at a net income of $200. Well, look at this. What a stark contrast. We have different net incomes reported-- $400 for FIFO and $200 for LIFO. And we have different tax obligations-- $80 for for FIFO and $40 for LIFO. And then interestingly enough, the value of the remaining inventory is recorded as being quite different-- $400 versus $200. Keep in mind that we still have 30 units remaining in each of these different valuations, just that they are valued at different purchase costs. With FIFO, we see a higher reported net income and a higher tax obligation in the near-term, as well as a higher valuation of the inventory. In contrast, with LIFO, as we've suggested earlier, the inventory may actually be undervalued as compared to the FIFO inventory. So let's talk about key points. There are different ways to value inventory, and we discussed two of the more popular methods of LIFO and FIFO. LIFO uses the most recent cost of inventory to match revenue from sales, and this typically results in lower-stated profits, again, assuming material costs are increasing over time. As we have seen from the example, therefore, the remaining inventory can be undervalued. FIFO uses the oldest cost of inventory to match revenue with sales, and this typically results in a higher potential profit, but it does incur near-term term tax obligations that you don't have with LIFO. As a result, the remaining inventory, using a FIFO system, is more likely to be associated or closely associated with the current market value or current replacement cost of that inventory. Considering that the impact these two different valuation methods have on financial statements, it is important for supply chain managers to become familiar with the inventory valuation method being used in the business in order to fully appreciate the assets on hand and how those assets, inventory, are being used in the financial reports and to serve the business. Just using our example, we observed that two inventories with the exact same number of units could have financial valuations with one being twice as large as the other. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use the discussion area, and I look forward to seeing you in the next session. Thanks.
