The second suggestion we have is to focus on the problem at hand. What do I mean here? Well, it's all about separating the wheat from the chaff. What are the important things to the supply chain, and what are the trivial things? And so what I want to do is talk about how you make that decision, because you will typically be asked by the managers of the supply chain, of the different parts of the supply chain, why can't you model everything? All- each SKU to each pickup point to each ship-to point? Why not do everything all together? We are in the age of big data. Computers are very fast. Why not model everything? And I'll talk about why we can't in a second. But you're going to have to be making this decision on what do I include in the model, and how do I decide what to treat differently? So let me give you some tips on this. The first thing you can do is leverage what you've learned in previous lessons about segmentation. We talked about applying the power law-- remember the Pareto principle, the 80-20 rule. Goes by many names-- about different products and customers. Make sure you're focusing on those products and customers that are really making a difference to the supply chain. They're really driving the cost, driving the performance. You want to aggregate data as needed. I don't need to model each individual SKU. We want to combine them and customers in logical and smart ways. And we'll talk more about that in a second. So we want to aggregate data as needed as much as possible. We can apply different levels of analysis and attention to different aspects of the supply chain. The decision isn't really binary. It isn't do I include it in the model or not? Yes or no? You really have this nice continuum of options. So you might have some things that are really important to the overall decision, and those are in the objective function. Those are decision variables. Do I open a plant or close a plant? Do I flow and source things from international, or do I do it domestic? Those are things that are core to the model, for example, for the decision you're making. But there might be some other things that are less important. It isn't that you're going to ignore them. You might do a different analysis. You might, after the model's developed, do some side runs, test some different things on the side. You might do a quick heuristic analysis to say, you know what? I think the impact's going to be x. But just because it's not in the large model doesn't mean you ignore it. You can apply different levels of analysis. You don't want to get sucked into exceptions. Someone is always going to say, well, the plant doesn't operate like that on Tuesdays of the third week of every month. The reason why you don't want to get sucked into these is because there's so many exceptions out there. And we've already figured out a way and shown you way to cover for those. And that's using the optimal baseline. Remember how we showed when you came up with the baseline, and then you've optimized it? And then, that different from what actually happens to that optimized baseline? That helps me determine what the effect of exceptions are today. And when I do future optimization scenarios, I compare to the optimal baseline, not to what's actually happening. So we're going to compare to an optimal baseline anyway. Don't get sucked into exceptions and trying to model every exception into the larger network design model. You want to make sure that the level of detail that you include in the model makes sense for the decision at hand. If you're making a larger-scale macro decision, then you want to have larger macro data And it's very important that you communicate and socialize all of these decisions. Every SKU that you're modeling, every facility that you're including, every plant, all of these, each of these, is someone's baby, someone's livelihood. So someone has a very vested interest here. So it's very important that you start communicating and socializing this among the stakeholders about why you're doing what, why each of the decisions are being included in the model or treated separately on the side. So communication is one of the most critical aspects of running any of these modeling engagements. You cannot over-communicate, in my opinion. But at the end of the day everyone involved needs to realize that models are caricatures of your supply chain. They're not photographs. They're not reality. They're abstractions of reality. And the abstractions should make sense to what it is you're trying to decide. OK, let me talk for a second about aggregation of data, because this is a critical aspect. Data collection is the most time-consuming aspect of any of these engagements. So why do we have to aggregate? Well, the problems are massive, anyway. And so we saw as you increase the number of points of origin, destination points, products, all of these things increase the size of the problem. And so as I add more products or customers, then it gets even bigger. So you want to keep the complexity as small as possible while still delivering an accurate and usable solution. By aggregating data, you minimize the likelihood of getting a false precision. If I include all the SKUs, people will think the answer is going to be exact. And we know what we're trying to do here is something that's one, two, three years in the future. And so I'm basing this on averages of values that the forecast accuracy isn't going to be perfect anyway. So don't think that you have to solve things to the 13th decimal place, because we know that's false precision. You won't get that accurate in your estimates anyway. So by aggregating data, it helps lessen the likelihood of falling into that false precision trap. And there's insufficient time to collect every detail of every SKU to every location. So aggregating is one way to reduce the time it takes to collect data a little bit. But at the end of the day, the way you make decisions-- remember, this is a strategic decision-making tool. We're making decisions that will be put in place for a year or longer. When you make decisions at that level, you're making aggregate decisions anyway. You're turning the plant on or off. You're flowing through DC or you're not. You're not making decisions on SKU 125 goes through this DC or not. You're making decisions on larger pieces. Now, at the transactional level or the tactical level, sure. Then I'll make decisions for individual SKUs for individual customers. But at the strategic level, where I make decisions for the annual or longer basis, you're making those in aggregate terms anyway. So now, let me talk about customer and product aggregation. For customer aggregation, this is actually a little easier than product aggregation. So we look at, mainly, geographic proximity. If you have customers next to each other, why not aggregate them? And these are ship-to locations. You probably can lean on the postal codes within each country. Now, different countries have different standards. And some are more amenable or less amenable to doing this. In the US, it is often common to aggregate to three-digit zip codes. The first three digits of zip codes. But it really depends on the country. You can also segment based on the required service level. Whether they required express service, whether they can have slower service, whether it's an original equipment manufacturer. For example, if you have a plant that needs very on-time delivery, can't be late, you're going to treat them differently than a customer that's located right next to them, but they have very loose requirement standards. So maybe I can treat them separately and aggregate them differently. I could also aggregate by the transportation mode that's used, whether it's rail, intermodal, truckload, LTL, whatever. But at the end of the day I'm going to aggregate certain customers together. And you might ask, well, doesn't that lessen the effectiveness or the quality of the solution and of the model itself? And there have been some interesting studies. And you can always test this. But Watson and his colleagues did an interesting test that they talk about in their textbook. And they did two tests of the same network. One is where they kept it totally disaggregated. It was 16,000 customer locations and 60 potential DC locations. And then, the same network, but they aggregated the customer locations into 800 customer locations with 26 candidate DC locations. They solved them. And they came up with the same solutions. They picked the same distribution centers to flow the product through. And the cost differential between the two solutions was less than 0.4%, which is pretty amazing. That's less than the accuracy of the forecast you'll have for the input data that your modeling is based on. So customer aggregation. It makes sense. It makes the model easier. And it really doesn't have that dramatic an impact on the accuracy. Product aggregation's a little harder. And what you really want to do is look for a representative flow unit. Is there one unit that I can model for all of my products? For example, in previous cases that we looked at, for the New England Root Beer Distributors, we looked at barrels. There might be different flavors of root beer and everything, but I could combine them into one unit and model that flowing of barrels. We could do with tons. Is it cubes? Pieces? Lines? Is there one unit, flow unit, that I can model all the products under? Now, marketing will tell you no. They're all unique. They're all different. But from a supply chain perspective, it might be that they're very similar. And I might be able to do that. You should try to see, can I model this network using one representative product? And if not, say, well, what about two? Is there one that's big and small? Is there one that I can separate them, but I only have two SKUs? So you should begrudgingly add additional products to this, because we saw what happens when you go from a single to a multi-commodity flow. The problem gets much bigger. And you want to make sure you're modeling something that makes sense. So how can I aggregate if I am aggregating by product? Well, you can think of the different requirements for packaging, production, or transportation. Maybe different sourcing location, the size of the products. Big, bulky things will probably flow very differently than small, tiny things. Think of products that have shared components. You might want to keep them together. And you might have product families, a whole set of families that you're probably going to flow in the same direction. In any case, when you look at aggregation, you know need to do it for many different reasons. And you just have to be very clever. And you need to communicate how you're aggregating.
