So we talked about omnichannel in kind of generalities and why it's important, and how it's different from traditional or e-commerce. Now let's show how you can do a network design for an channel system. And so here's a simple example. We're calling it Araz. It's a fast fashion retailer. And they're selling mainly to fashion conscious women on a budget. They currently distribute their products from their own plants to their own branded stores or directly from fulfillment centers to the home for online sales. And they've decided to try to offer different delivery options for their online, their e-commerce and m-commerce consumers. And so the four options they're exploring is continued home delivery, pickup in their stores, pick up in a convenience store that is an attended pickup point, or pick up in an automated package station or an APS, which is unintended. And that's where a code is sent ahead of time and you have to enter that code in to open the locker. So it's a new, a different way of having a delivery. And so the question is, how should Araz design this omnichannel network? And we want to formulate a mixed integer linear program to design this physical flow using these multiple channels. And we want to determine the flow quantity through each of the channels and the intermediate facilities that we want to open in order to minimize the total cost. So here is my simplified network. And what I have is a distribution center, that's the CDC on the far left. And I'm getting product to the people on the far right. And you see you have many different channels or flow paths through this very, very simple network. Let me start with the simplest one. From the CDC-- I'm just going to circle here-- that's the distribution center, using a van to its own retail stores. Now once it's at the retail stores the consumer could walk -- that's what those little footsteps are for-- or they get to the store themselves somehow. And they go there and they pick it off the shelf. That's what the shopping cart's for. Or they could have ordered it online, had it brought to the retail store, and then they go pick it up from the back room. So it's that click and collect that I talked about. So that's one option. Another option is they can get it delivered to the store, but perhaps Zara delivers with a large truck to a ID or an intermediate depot. And then they do local vans for delivery out to each retail store. So it doesn't change for the consumer. But the way it flows for Araz is different. They could also use one of the depots to deliver to a convenience store. And this is where you'd have one of those attended pickup points. It could be a 7-Eleven or a gas station. This is very common in Europe. Less common in the United States, although it's starting to catch on. So you have a delivery and they are local to you. And they will just keep the things behind the counter where they might have a way of securing it for you. So I could supply that through the depot or I could go directly from the CDC itself. And then once it's there, My consumer will walk to it or drive to it and they'll pick it up directly. It's not on the shelf, it's sitting behind the counter or in some back room. I could also have an APS. Remember, that's that automated package system. That that's the unattended one where it's a locker. I might deliver straight from the CDC or it might go through another depot in a large conveyance in order to lower the cost of the line haul to a depot, and then a small van to that APS. To pick it up the consumer would walk or drive to it and would just pick it up. The other options I have is delivering straight to the home from the CDC. Or maybe going through that depot and going to the home. So very simple example but look at all the different ways products can flow. It can flow 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,10 different ways. That's amazing. So how would you determine which flow to use, which depots to open because you might have different potential IDs or intermediate depots to open? Which ones make sense? So here's the simple formulation. And this should look very familiar to you by now. It's a mixed integer linear program and it's a network design. It's the same stuff we've been talking about for the last several weeks. So look at the objective function. My first term is all about the fixed costs. And these are of the intermediate depots are open or not. That's one of my decisions. Do I open an ID, an intermediate depot or not? And there's a fixed cost associated with that. The next flow, that's tying in the cost to serve that final point of delivery from a CDC or an ID. Then I've got the fixed cost of that for each of those IDs, the handling cost rather. Then I've got the flow cost on those deliveries to the final points. And then I've got a handling at those final points. So that's my objective function. My constraints are, I have to make sure I have enough supply. I can't send any more out than I have supply of. I don't want to send any more out than is demanded. I need to make sure I meet all of the demand. I need this logical constraint to make sure that if I flow something on the arc kj that I actually have the facility k open. I can't ship product through an ID if it's not open. So that's that logical or linking constraint. Then I have conservation of flow. If something goes in to one of those intermediate depots, those IDs, stuff's got to come out. It doesn't get stored. So what goes in must go out. And then I have some min and max values for the capacity that I can have, or the number of that I can open. So it's a pretty straightforward network design that should look very similar to the ones we did in previous lessons where we do for a larger multi city network. It's really the same structure. So I'm going to put in some cost here. And all of this data is available to you at the bottom of the video. And I have it in a spreadsheet form because I'm going to solve it in that. You could also solve it in other packages. You're not restricted to using the solver within a spreadsheet. You can use other systems. But here are the costs. And here it is in a spreadsheet. And you can see the objective function up here, and then all of the series of constraints. The decision variables are all in yellow. And again, this should be repetitive by now. This should look very familiar to you. And so I can solve this using different solver parameters. Here I'm showing it in Excel. But you can also figure, you can use this in LibraOffice, you can use other systems like SAS, you can use AMPL. It doesn't matter. It will give you the same answer. So here is the original question, how would we set up all the different flow channels. And if you optimize with the numbers that we gave you you'll end up with this. So let's go back. So here's all my options. And what we did is we found the optimal flow or paths to flow. And it looks like we'll be sending product directly to the store. We'll also be using that convenience store for a fair amount. And we'll also be using ID too, which should be going to that automated service as well as some home delivery. So what we've done here is designed a network for the omnichannel distribution. Now this was a simple, simple problem but you can see the same structure applies that we used for large scale network design. It's the same problem. It makes it even more interesting because I have so many different options to meet my final consumers.
