So I know this has been a relatively long lesson. I've introduced you to a lot of financial concepts and tools. But I'm hoping that these will be important for you in your supply chain professional practice, because they really help you to capture the value and analyze the value of the different supply chain designs you're coming up with. Let's go over a few key points to help pull that knowledge together. First of all, this lesson focused on how to assess the cash flows you came up with based on knowledge from the previous lesson and determine figures of merit to guide your decisions, whether it's investments or other supply chain designs that may include cost reductions or capital reductions. And the fundamental value we use, the fundamental figure of merit, is the net present value. It tells us the exact value of the initiative based on the cash flows we've projected for a given discount rate. Now, the weakness, the one weakness of net present value, is that it considers a given discount rate and given cash flows. So to mitigate the risk of picking the wrong discount rate, we use IRR, Internal Rate of Return, which tells us the range of discount rates that give us a net present value that's positive and, therefore, a good decision. And the wider that range, and especially the further it is from our current assumption around a discount rate or the return expected by investors, the more robust that decision is. In addition, we've assumed that all of our cash flows are deterministic. And they may not be. So the payback period, even though it doesn't incorporate time value of money, does give you a sense of how risky a project is, because if you get your cash back sooner, you don't face the risk of the future not playing out like you planned. And by using these analysis approaches, you're really evaluating decisions based on the approaches of modern business, that these techniques grew in popularity from 4% in the 1950s to over 90% in the late 1980s. So you've now learned the techniques that are used by almost every business in making decisions. And in fact, a very common financial textbook says that it's not an exaggeration to say that these discounted cash flow analysis approaches that you've learned are the backbone of modern finance and even modern business. Modern business decisions are really driven by appropriate discounted cash flow analysis. And the reason that's the case is because discounted cash flow analysis actually quantifies the value we're creating for our investors based on making good investments, based on determining appropriate capital reductions, even if they are offset by negative cash flows in the future, and by assessing the value created by cost savings. And importantly, it allows us to combine all of these things together into one projection and calculate the value based on net present value. It also helps us to really capture the full value of inventory reductions. We saw in the last segment there are some weaknesses in applying an inventory holding cost to calculate savings. But by using discounted cash flows, we can really understand the true value of the capital we're freeing up to invest. And in doing so, we're really using the IRR, internal rate of return, to determine the effective rate that we're generating money at for our firm. So we're freeing up capital. And that capital acquisition-- it's not really acquiring it, but we're freeing it up in our firm-- if it's lower than our cost of capital, that means that's a better way to generate money than to go out to investors or to banks or equity investors to further put money into the company. So that inventory reduction that frees up capital, the IRR and net present value, these discounted cash flow techniques, really help us estimate the true value of that capital reduction. And also, in addition to the capital reduction, there can be a perpetuity of non-capital costs, operating expenses that hit the income statement and increase our net operating profits, because we have less cost. So make sure to capture all of these values when you're making an inventory reduction. Now, there are some key aspects of discounted cash flow analysis we didn't cover. We talked about inflation not being something that we incorporated directly. That is an important thing to consider. And you need to understand that nominal cash flows need to go with nominal rates, and real cash flows with real rates. But you'll need to look elsewhere to see exactly how to apply that. We didn't have time to cover it. In addition, we didn't talk about perpetual growth. We talked about the importance of perpetuities. But we assumed they were going to be flat. Perpetual growth has another set of assumptions you'll have to be careful in making. But it could create more value for your initiative. A big thing we didn't incorporate is risk. We assumed everything is deterministic-- all the cash flows are exactly what we say they're going to be into the future. And there is definitely a whole lesson's worth of material on how to effectively incorporate risk in discounted cash flow analysis. Finally, we focused on evaluating one initiative or one investment. But when you're having several projects, and especially if capital is limited, which it often is, the ranking approaches and the determination of how you ration that capital to different projects merits a lot more teaching, because there's a lot of different aspects you need to incorporate. In addition if you have mutually exclusive options-- if you can do a or b, but not both, especially if they have different time horizons-- there's also some additional considerations you want to make when applying discounted cash flow analysis. So we didn't cover them here. You may need to look elsewhere for some of those specific aspects if you're going further with this knowledge. But I wanted to tie this back to the supply chain design that we've been teaching throughout this whole course, and that the objective functions often used in supply chain design don't properly quantify the value created. They're really good at capturing revenues and costs, whether it's cost of goods sold or a sell in general or administrative expenses. But oftentimes, they ignore taxes, including them important tax shield that comes from depreciation of fixed assets. And they often ignore the time value of money, which is usually a little more complicated to incorporate those into the design approaches. And so just realize that we're not not necessarily capturing all the relevant cash flows and not incorporating the time value of money. In addition, they often don't capture the balance sheet very well. It'll mix things like a full fixed cost of capital exponential, like a warehouse, with short-term costs and revenues in the income statement into one value. And also, the inventory holding cost, as we saw in the last segment, oftentimes savings from an inventory reduction, is determined by calculating-- of applying the inventory holding cost rate to the inventory reduced. And we saw that it's better to capture that with more clear assumptions than discounted cash flow analysis to capture all of the relevant cash flows and the perpetuity of benefits. However, these objective functions may lead to very appropriate designs. They're there for a reason. They're appropriate for designing the supply chain. Just at the end, once you've done your design, go back and use your discounted cash flow analysis approach, as the knowledge you have now to quantify the real value that's being created for a firm's investors. And therefore, you get credit for all of the value you're creating through your design efforts. So in practicing these, obviously there's practice problems. And using the discussion, it's very important to get a lot of practice, because these techniques are fairly new and we haven't covered them extensively in the rest of the course. And we're not going to visit them again. So definitely practice doing this. This can be, hopefully, a very useful part of your professional career going forward, because now you have the ability to count all of the huge pile of cash that you're creating in your supply chain designs. Good luck.
