PROFESSOR: Hi there. Welcome to Eco Pants part two. In this recitation, we'll be covering a minor change to our model in which we are going to be attempting to reduce our carbon footprint. To do that, we are only going to be sourcing from local suppliers. And so what we'll do is we'll go over here to our part one model. We're going to make some adjustments. So I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to create a copy of this. So let me go ahead and save a copy in drive. And on this copy, I'm going to go ahead and call this copy of EP. So I'm going to call this P2, eco pants part two. And this won't be a copy. And I'm going to go ahead and get this going. So I'm going to start running this SCX package. I'm going to run this optimize import. We're going to import our model from our optimize module. Anyway, so to go ahead and add the difference between a local and a non-local supplier, there's a couple of things we could do. The first thing we could do is actually just say, hey, supplier three is from another country. I'm just going to go ahead and change my capacity to 0 for that supplier. Well, yes, that actually is going to work. And it's going to say, I don't have any capacity there, so I want source from them. Because there might be more caveats, eventually we're going to go and we're going to model this actually as a specific change to a constraint. So I'm going to go ahead and leave that capacity at 400. And what I'm going to go ahead and do is add a new variable called location. And so I'm going to say location is going to be-- what do we want to call that-- local. And I can go ahead and I can add this location for each item in our supply matrix. So I'm going to go ahead and copy a pre-populated table over just to speed that up a little bit. So you can see we have a local location for S1. But you will see that S3, that is our supplier three, is based in another country. So we're going to locate that or put that location as foreign. So I'm going to go ahead and run this cell. And this is otherwise the same as in part one. So if I scroll down to the bottom here, you can see we can still add our amounts that we're going to purchase from each one of our suppliers for each fabric. So I'm going to create those amount variables for each item in that cost matrix. And finally, we're going to go ahead and modify our model to add this new constraint in. So what we're going to say is for each item in this supply, so for each S in supply, we're going to modify that to say we're only going to have capacity for this. We're only going to purchase from them if that variable we created, that location variable, is local. So we're only going to purchase from them if it's local. So we could do that in a couple places. We could actually add some extra things here to say, look, all of the things we buy from them have to either be less than capacity or whether or not it's local. And so in this case, I'm going to go ahead and do that here. But in theory we could add a separate constraint that just says, hey, we're going to add a separate kind of not-capacity constraint or a non-capacity-based constraint just for only time some m value. But in this case, we're going to go ahead and just add that here as the S capacity. All right, so to do that, we're going to go ahead and just put some parentheses around this, just so we can say we're going to execute a sub function in here. And we're going to say we're going to use the capacity if-- and that is going to be if the location, if S bracket location equals equals local else 0. So we can say we're going to use capacity if they are local. Otherwise, we're going to set it to 0. Again, this is doing the same thing as us manually changing it. But this might give us programmatic ways in the future to do more complex combinations of things rather than just manually setting it to 0. Maybe we could add some toggles or flips inside of our code or environment variables that could allow us to change this on the fly or dynamically. So I'm going to go ahead and say if the amount of everything that we're flowing for each supplier has to be less than the capacity if it's local. Otherwise it has to be less than 0. OK, perfect. That looks good. So I'm going to go ahead and run this. And we're going to go ahead and look and see what this looks like on our formulation. And you should see that the amount for S3 supply, that actually has to be less than or equal to 0, where the other ones are less than or equal to their actual capacities. And so this is just saying, hey, look, since it's not local, we're making it 0. So I'm going to go ahead and show the outputs here. So I'm going to hit this show outputs. And we can go ahead and see that we have a different objective function here. So I'm going to go ahead and answer some questions. So formulating this model, what are the things that we are applying? We are applying an objective function. We are using a demand constraint, a supply constraint, and a non-negativity constraint. We are not doing a linking or conservation of flow constraint or level of service. So I'm going to go ahead and submit that. And it looks like we got it right. So that is great news. Now, considering this new requirement, what is the minimum total procurement cost? Again, that's going to be this 73,516. So let me go ahead and type that in, 73516.0. We're rounding to our nearest integer, so 73516. I'm going to go ahead and submit that. And it looks like we got it right. So great, we made the correct adjustments there. And we should be good to go there as far as our optimality function. All right, so in our optimal solution, which types of fabric would we suggest support seen from supplier one? So let's go ahead and let's look at supplier one. And you can see here are all of the outputs, all of the fabrics coming from supplier one, you can see we're sourcing F2, so specifically fabric two, as well as fabric three. The other ones are 0. So I'm going to say fabric two and fabric three. I'm going to hit Submit. And it looks like we have another correct answer. And so that pretty much wraps up everything we need to do for part two of the eco pants problem. Thank you.
