OK. In this lesson, we're going to touch upon some more advanced topics in supply chain network design. Now we're not going to go into great depth here. What I want to do is give you a feel for some of these advanced concepts. So here's what we're going to talk about, these five topics. First, robustness, and by robustness, what we're trying to do is capture the effect that uncertainty has, and primarily, uncertainty in demand. So how do I handle this within the mixed integer linear program framework that we talked about? Then I'm going to talk about multi-commodity flow. So far, everything we've looked at is with a single commodity. That is, it doesn't matter where it's produced, or where it's demanded, the same unit is fungible. It can be used anywhere across that network. Now we're going to say they're different products, different SKUs, or different categories, and they all have to flow through the same system. So we'll see how we incorporate that. Then we'll move on to building and flexibility. This is somewhat related to robustness, but the idea here is, we want to set up the structure, our network, so that it makes it makes it easier to be more flexible, in case there's changes in demand. And we're going to look specifically at a concept called chaining. Then we're going to move into multi-time period models. These are, if I have to consider different periods of time, because so far we've assumed everything's one bucket of time, typically a year. Could be a month, could be a week. But we assume that it's a representative time period. In this case, with multiple time periods, we want to see what the effect is, for example, what happens in January influences what happens in February, influences what happens in March, and so on. This is more of a tactical planning model, and we'll see this again in other areas. But I wanted to introduce it here. And then finally, we'll talk about the thing that's been missing. The elephant in the room. The inventory considerations. Because if you've been paying attention, most supply chain network design approaches do not consider inventory in the network design. And so we'll talk about that one finally. OK. Let's get started.
