Hi. Welcome to the supply chain finance module. In this lesson, we're going to talk about supply chain finance options. My objective in this particular segment is really to explain a number of different options that exist for the firms to finance their supply chain, and that's specifically focused, of course, on providing liquidity in the supply chain. We're going to consider the benefits of supply chain financing, and we're not going to make you experts, though. There exist many different options. We've talked about factoring, but you can see that there are a lot of different possibilities. We're going to talk about each of these. There are also some advanced options which involve the use of information technology. But beware, these terms mean different things to different people. There are many different ways to structure these arrangements. So be careful to understand the specifics of each and every one of these when you're using these terms and hearing others use these. Start with invoice discount. This is initiated by the seller. There's not a third party involved. And the seller basically offers a lower price to the buyer in exchange for early payment. So instead of paying a certain amount of y at time t equals x, what we see is the seller's offering the buyer to pay them 2% less than the invoice total if they pay in 10 days. And their other option is to pay 30 days. The timing and the amount is set by the seller. And the buyer gets to choose whether he or she wants to exercise that option or not. Financing a loan, also known as the invoice discount plus, is basically where the seller uses the receivable, which was an asset, as collateral for the basis of a loan from a bank. It's initiated by the seller, a third party is involved, and the seller again uses the invoice as collateral for a loan with a third party. And so we have the bank makes a loan of a certain amount, y, and then the seller is obliged to make payments of y plus some percentage. And if the seller defaults, then they get to use the collateral as their asset. And again, that's collateral, that's backing up the loan. Now important in this is that the bank uses the seller's credit risk to set the rate. They're only looking at the supplier in this case, or the seller. They're not looking at this customer to set that rate. Forfeiting is very similar to factoring without recourse, except it's used for exports and imports. It's initiated by the seller. And a third party's involved, typically [INAUDIBLE] an organization that has some expertise in export and import. And basically the seller is selling the receivable to a third party at a discount. And the third party buys that, they collect from the buyer. And if the buyer fails to pay, third party takes a risk. And they cannot collect from the seller. Now forfeiting is I think a little more different, has some more complexities of course, because in the export-import process you have materials going across borders, much more administration, more compliance. A lot more parties, more risk involved. And so you'd see that the risks, the compensation is going to be higher for those who are exercising this kind of arrangement. Reverse factoring sounds like factoring, but it's quite different. It's initiated by the buyer. And the buyer also initiates the financing operations, which in this case is a loan. Remember in factoring, the factoring was a sale of the receivable. A third party is involved through the buyer. Typically it's a bank that the buyer is familiar with. And the seller has the option to use the financing options offered. Now a third party basically offers to finance a receivable. But what's interesting here is that they're using the buyer's credit risk. So not the supplier, but the buyer's credit risk. If this buyer happens to be a bigger company, and they're doing a lot of business with that particular bank, that's good news for the supplier, because that means that they're going to have a lower cost loan. Because for the bank, it's a lower risk loan. Now let's talk about dynamic discount. This is basically an invoice discount, with changing terms. In the previous example of invoice discount, there was a fixed term. In this case, it's basically the same thing. But what's different here instead of the offer of say, 2% net 30, the seller might go to the buyer and say, look, we really need cash. So we're going to give you a deeper discount, but you've got to pay us even sooner, five days. Or some different arrangement-- 1% [? 20, ?] meaning 1% discount if the buyer pays within 20 days. So basically it's something that's negotiated. And of course, there's going to be a tradeoff. You're basically getting paid less. If you're the seller, you're getting paid less. But you're getting paid earlier. And inventory financing is quite different. In this case, the firm is not trying to finance a receivable, but instead they're trying to finance inventory. It's initiated by the seller, a third party is involved, and basically the seller arranges to get a loan or line of credit in order to purchase materials. This is often used when the seller has to build inventory in advance of a peak demand season, and where they may not have the adequate resources to invest in all the raw materials necessary to build that inventory. One important distinction here is that the third party is using the seller's inventory as collateral. Invoice auction is actually very similar to factoring without recourse. Let me explain. It's initiated by the seller, but third parties are invited. And the seller arranges an auction process to solicit bids for the invoice. So instead of with factoring without recourse, going to one party and making [INAUDIBLE] an agreement, they're basically holding an auction saying anybody can bid on this and the highest bidder wins. The only distinction is that here they're using an auction process to find that third party. Now keep in mind that the firm may not need to create their own auction process. There's existing auction platforms that they could use. And then you have to keep in mind that sometimes, you may have a customer who says, you are not allowed to sell my invoice. So I'm only going to pay you. And again, that would be subject to the contractual agreements between the buyer and the seller. And that may limit their options for financing. Now as I suggested earlier, there are some advanced options that involve the use of information technology that allows the firm to use automated processes that reduces the uncertainty that might actually make the cost of operations lower, may provide more information, which helps them have more informed risk assessments. And if they're more informed risk assessments, that means that firms may be able extend more favorable rates to the sellers when they're trying to finance that supply chain. Ultimately it's proactive use of IT for faster and better decision-making. Now there are some other options to finance the supply chain. These are non-financial, basically operational. And it's using things like consignment inventory, where the customer will utilize suppliers inventory, but not pay for it until they actually use it. So they'll keep it on hand, but then they'll have it ready and available. But that's basically where the capital requirement's pushed onto the supplier. Direct shipments, that allows an organization to not depend on intermediary inventory locations. And that would tie up capital. If you can ship direct to the customer, then you don't have to worry about that and there's less capital tied up. And then of course there's various forms of collaboration, [INAUDIBLE] [? managed ?] inventories, sales and operations planning, collaborative planning, forecasting, and replenishment and continuous replenishment process. Each of these allows the organization to potentially get in better alignment with their partner, and then that may help them reduce the amount of inventory necessary to maintain service levels. The benefits of supply chain, there are many potential benefits. A primary one for our purposes is the possibility of reducing in operating working capital. But overall, it also includes a possibility to lower cost operations. You may have for the buyers, they may get discounts. For the sellers, they may get lower cost loans. If there's an aggressive use of information, the cycle times might be faster. If the cash comes to you faster, than you may be able to operate faster. You may be able to reduce the cash conversion cycle. And then for those in thinking about their supply chain, may make their supply chain more robust. Because if you're collaborating with your upstream or downstream partner, you're basically making sure that they're going to be a more healthy supplier and more capable to supply your needs when you need them. And then of course there's benefits to third parties who are providing those loans, because they're getting more loans. That's desired by them. Key points, companies have many options to finance the supply chain, driven by a number of different factors. We've talked about many of them, and ultimately all of these provide the potential to reduce net operating working capital, including some operational methods as well. And then, of course, there are potential benefits for each party involved in these transactions when an organization is using supply chain finance. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use a discussion forum and look forward to seeing your future segment. Thanks.
