LAURA ALLEGUE: It's great to see you back. We're halfway this recitation, just about to start part 3. And if you haven't yet, as we usually do, I invite you to pause this video, read through the information available, and meet me back here in a few minutes to work on it together. In part 3 of this model, it seems that we were not provided initially with some important pieces of data and that, now, we have this new information to add into our model. We now need to include some setup costs that each supplier have whenever they prepare an order for us. So every time we place an order, they have a setup cost and we need to include that in our model because they are charging us for that. If we read carefully here, we can see that we're informed that we need to adjust our model from part two to incorporate the setup costs. So this means that the sustainability guidelines are still in place, which is great information for us. Sometimes, as we talked, we need to disregard some pieces of information. So I encourage you to carefully read the problem statements before moving on into working on your spreadsheets. Thinking now on our problem formulation for question one, let's analyze our new elements to be incorporated. So all elements we had in our previous part of this problem are still valid because we are told that we are continuing working with that model. So we do have an objective function, demand constraint, supply, and non-negativity constraints. But now, we need to incorporate a setup cost. And as you know, this requires two new elements. First one, the binary variables. Second one, the linking constraint. Let's submit. We got it right. I'm guessing question two is going to ask for adjusting the model and minimizing the total procurement cost. And that's the case, but now we need to include the setup cost as we talk. So it's time for opening our spreadsheets once again. Let's go through it. Back to our spreadsheet. A new reminder to duplicate your previous part top. And I promise you'll get used to it and this is going to save you a lot of time. In this part three, we need to add a new piece of information. This is about the setup cost, so let's go find it and make a place for it in our spreadsheet. I'll incorporate this here in between my variables originally set and my provided data. And as we did before, let's organize our information and add anything we may need. So we talked about the fact of using linking constraint and binary variables. So let's add it here. In our binary variables, we're going to call it purchased from. And this is, again, what we talked about before. This is your model. So it should be very clear for you. I like to say that if I purchase from this supplier, I'm going to pay a setup cost because that's what the problem statement is saying. So I am going to activate my binary if I'm purchasing from a certain supplier. So let's do some color coding. So I'm going to bring this format here because setup cost has been provided. The linking constraint is, actually, a calculated field. So I'm getting the format here and the purchase from-- these are variables, right? So I'm going to turn this into a yellow area. We know that when we use linking constraint, we need a large enough number that we name as M. As you probably learned from the different lectures, usually, we use the total demand as a large enough number and that works very well. So let's add a calculated field with that M value. And I have my demand here. Going to color code this once again. And I think I'm getting closer. I just need to set up my linking constraint and I'm ready to go back to the solver. So to set up the linking constraint, you're probably very familiar with that. Right now, we're going to consider the flow from that supplier, and I have that flow here minus the binary variable times M, the large enough number. I'm going to do the same for every supplier. So once again, flow minus binary variable times M. I used a column format. If you use the row format, probably you can just drag and drop the cell calculations. So that's also part of the formatting you use and the structures you like to use. Doing this again, flow minus binary variable times M, and we're almost all set. There is a huge recommendation for you anytime you're working with any models that have multiple variables or multiple calculated fields. If you want to know if your model is actually working as you expect, just adjust the variables by hand and see what's the impact in your objective function and in every calculated fields. If something is not responding as it should, then that's probably because it means that you're not including a certain number or a certain calculation in your model properly. So let's give it a try. Let's have a case in which there's no units flowing here. And we start from scratch. We have our objective function up there. So what should be happening? Let's add a random number here, right? Let's do 100. Based on the problem statement, if I'm procuring any units from a supplier, I need to pay the setup cost because I'm placing an order. And that's my cost driver for this problem. So there are two things that should happen in our model once that's all set. The solver is going to turn this into one if we use our linking constraint, right? And when is our model actually going to turn that binary variable into one? Well, remember that we usually do linking constraint has to be lower or equal to 0. If we keep this as a 0, then you can see that linking constraint has a positive value. This means that it's working properly. This means that it's going to force the model to make it one if there's any unit flowing from that supplier. Does that make sense to you? If not, please pause this video, go back a little bit, give it a try yourself, and return to us in a few minutes, once again, because it's very important that you understand what your model is doing for you and the solver, OK? So units flowing, binary variable activated with a proper linking constraint working, which is great. What else should happen if that's the case? Well, the cost should be considered in both, right? The fabric cost, which is $1 per meter based on the supplier submitted proposal, which would be this number of units times 167, if you see your table, plus the setup cost. Let's scroll up and see if we have that number. You clearly can see that we're missing something because this is only considering the price we talked about and the number of meters flowing. So what is this showing us? That we're missing to adjust our objective function. The objective function also needs to be adjusted to include the binary variables and the setup costs, right? Because we want the total procurement cost. And if placing an order has a cost and we're having a calculated field to tell that to the model, we also need to add the cost to our function. So I'm going to add another sum product that has now the binary variables and the cost. So every time a supplier receives an order, we make sure we add a setup cost to that calculation. I'm going to close this formula, click Enter. And now you can see that I not only have the 100 meters times $167, but also, the $1,500 that I'm paying for the setup cost. So now that I adjusted my model and it seems to be working properly, let's adjust our solver settings. Having it all set in our spreadsheet makes it very easy to adjust our solver settings. Let's go to data and solver. And you can see that, again, as we duplicated part two, we do have all the information here. I'm going to add my new variables here. I'm also going to add a constraint to say that these are binary variables. And I'm going to add another constraint as we talked saying that my linking constraint should be lower or equal to 0, OK? That's all set and I'm just going to click Solve and see what we got. Closing the survey results. Let's analyze what we got. What changed from our previous part of the model? Supplier three is still not receiving any purchase order. This is because of our sustainability guidelines from part two, so that has not changed. But you can see now that also supplier two is not receiving any purchase order, which is new to this problem. As you may notice, supplier two has a higher setup cost than others. So probably the higher setup cost was not compensated with a lower price on one of the fabric types. And that's easily seen in the model, as you can see, that in the past, supplier two would be sourcing fabric five, which has now gone to supplier four. So this new information about a setup cost for placing an order did have an impact in our model and actually changed the way we are sourcing our products. And now, our procurement cost went up. I invite you to enter this answer in question two and go ahead with solving question three as you already know how to work through it. See you in the last part of this recitation.
