All right. So far in this lesson, we focused in on the mathematics and the models of connecting supply and their operations and sales, or demand. What I want to do now in this last video segment is talk about the process itself. Now, I'm only going to talk about it in one segment, but that doesn't mean that it's not important. In fact, it's probably more important than the models that we developed. So the whole idea here is that the sales and operations planning process is known as a change management tool because what we're doing is we're changing the way the company has been operating. And instead of doing things separately, we're bringing them together. And so whenever you have people involved, it's always harder than the math. The people make decisions. The models don't make decisions. But having people together, it requires a different set of skills. And so sometimes this is referred to as hard and soft skills. Everything we've done so far has pretty much been on the hard side. By hard, I don't mean necessarily difficult. But they mean more quantitative and analytical. Soft skills deal with people, and how you manage people, and get people together because success for an S&OP process relies less on the optimization models and more on the soft skills of the people that are participating. Can you work with the other people from the other side of the organization? One of the things that is observed a lot and commented on is that the type of people that are in sales are not necessarily the same type of people that are in operations. They don't necessarily think the same. They don't have the same objectives. They're doing very different jobs. So the ability to work and understand how other people think is a critical soft skill that, to be honest, a lot of people in the supply chain don't have. We are more focused on those hard skills. But in this aspect, getting an S&OP process up and running and making it successful, that requires more people skills than any other process. So it also requires for the process that it's structured. It's not something you do ad hoc-- a little bit here, a little bit there. It has to have a formal structure. And it needs to be repeatable. You don't balance your supply and demand once every four years. This is something you want to do monthly. To make this process successful, you need to have top level buy-in. What does that mean? That means that the senior VPs of all the sales and marketing, people can make those decisions. And the senior VPs in the operations side, people can make decisions, are vested in this. They have to both be vested in it. If this is only operations or the supply chain talking to themselves, then it's worthless. It's a meaningless exercise. So you need to have top level buy-in from all aspects. You need to have bottom-level support. What I mean here is you can't make decisions at the top level unless you have the data. And it takes a lot of effort to have that. And so that's what I mean by that bottom-level support. People in this meeting need to have decision-making authority. They need to be able to make the decision based on the facts in the room. And you don't want to make this be a long, drawn out decision-making process where people just meet to meet. You want to make it so that things get decided. And this naturally requires trust from all the participants. And that's the hardest thing to gain. But you gain it by having this process that's structured and repeatable. So let me go through a very simple-- on paper anyway-- five-step process. And this was adapted from Wallace and Stahl. These guys pretty much wrote the book on sales and operations planning. And if you want to get more into the implementation side of things, I highly recommend it. So remember, the monthly S&OP process-- sometimes the executive S&OP process-- is a structured, repeated process, usually each month, where demand and supply activities are brought in sync. And it provides executives to have full visibility. And so the critical thing is up here at that executive meeting in step five, that people in that meeting have the authority to make decisions. So let's go through this really quickly, step by step. So the first step-- at the end of a month, within the next one to two days, very quickly, someone should be gathering the data, and understanding what was the actual demand of the last month, the supply, the inventory, the backlog, forecast error. What happened? And this takes a lot of time. And doing this in one to two days is daunting unless you get it worked into a standard process. Once this is done, this goes, next step, to demand planning. And what are they doing? They're developing a forecast. Now, depending on whether it's make-to-order or make-to-stock, there might be different ways they focus on this. But the idea here is to focus on the big customers that are driving the performance. And it's not just the statistical forecast. It's actually modified by what they expect-- any changes they see, any new products. So that's why we call it a management forecast. It's not just numbers out of the software. It's what their opinion of what the forecast is going to be, to include the assumptions that they made, because at the end of the day, they're going to turn this up to the next group. And you want to be able to give people not just a number, but why you came up with that number. That's why the assumptions make sense. Additionally, this will be not just in units, but also in dollars. So the forecast has to be in both areas. And when I say dollars, I mean financial. You need the financial terms as well as the units. Typically, forecasts are done in units. But to roll it up to see the impact, you also need to do it in dollars. Now then, when I say a first-pass spreadsheet, they do the first cut on understanding, for the next 12-month rolling period, what the forecasts are, what the demand planning is going to be, what the production planning, what the inventory is going to be. They make that first cut. And that, along with the basic information, gets passed up to the supply planning group. And what they do is they try to say, OK, does our current plan meet this forecast? That's the question. Does it meet that? Do we have the capability now to do this? And they try to understand their requirements plan, their capacity constraints, and see where they can and can't meet it, and what they need to do to try to meet that demand. Now, the next step is probably the most important. This is the pre-meeting. That's where you come together, not with the most senior executives, but the larger team. And you try to understand what works. This is a go/no go type of meeting. And you make recommendations on whether you need to make any changes. So for example, if everything comes out that your current plan satisfies all the demand that's been forecast, then that's easy. Stay the course. But if there's a conflict, if demand is higher in some area for some product families than others, you might want to shift production. So you might want to say, you know what? We're not going to satisfy demand for Category A. We're going to shift it to B. And so that's a decision that's going to be made. They're going to change the sales side, or they're going to change the operations side. And so you make the decisions here. And there may be recommendations to go forward. Now generally, a lot of the decisions are going to be made here. But if they can't, then you go up to the next level. And the tiebreaker really happens here at the executive meeting. And this is a short meeting. There should be two hours, several hours, where you're making the decisions based on all the pre-work that's been done. So you kind of teeing it up for that senior executive team to say yes, no, to decide on all the ties. Because at the end the day, you want to leave this meeting with decisions. You don't want to have to go back and say, oh, we need more data. Let's do this again. You need to have a process set up so that it works like clockwork because what you're doing here is you're combining two distinct sides of the company together and keeping them in sync. So like I said, if your company does not have an S&OP process, it's a difficult thing to put in place because the people from different sides of the organization are going to have to share. And it's a harder thing to get across. But once it's there, it serves as a great mechanism to really tie the company together, to having both the sales and the operations synced for that.
