Hi, welcome to the supply chain finance module. This segment, we'll focus on connecting supply chain transactions to the financial statements. In the world of the supply chain manager, we are often focused on the tangible aspects of our work, inventory management, forecasting, distribution planning, capacity planning, and how the design of the supply chain can create competitive advantage. These are indeed important for the supply chain manager, but today's supply chain manager needs to be able to communicate what we do in the supply chain to those in leadership positions. And we need to be able to do so using a language that leaders understand. That is the language of finance. And so this segment, we'll make a connection between all those things we do on the supply chain with the financial statements, so that we as supply chain managers can effectively communicate with leadership regarding the impact of our work on the business in financial terms. We start with two basic but important financial statements, the income statement and the balance sheet. We must also consider other factors relating to the accounting, including financial accounting, tax accounting, managerial accounting, the core accounting principles, and the inventory valuation methods of LIFO and FIFO. Altogether, the statements and the accounting methods set the foundation of knowledge for identifying how supply chain activities impact the balance sheet and the income statement. To start off, we first consider one fundamental transaction that involves the supply chain, the sale of finished goods. We'll use this as an example to understand how these different transactions impact the financial statements. The case is a simple one. A company sells a printing system for $10,000 in cash. The product cost $2,000 for the company to produce it. What is the impact on the income statement? Well, because they sold the product for $10,000, the income statement would reflect an increase of $10,000 in revenue. When a product is sold, the revenue is matched with the costs associated with the product being sold. In this case, the costs associated with the product is $2,000. And therefore, $2,000 of costs are recognized, and costs increase by that amount. You may wonder where those costs were recorded up to that point. Until the sale of the product, those costs were included in the valuation of the inventory, which was maintained as a current asset on the balance sheet. Now, as a result of these two changes, then that income would increase by $8,000. So that accounts for the impact on the income statement. But what about the impact on the balance sheet? Well, because the printing system was sold for $10,000 in cash, the current asset cash account would increase by $10,000. And as previously noted, because we sold the product and it carried a cost of $2,000, the current asset inventory account would decrease by $2,000. Because that inventory was removed, and the costs associated with selling that product was matched with the revenue. Therefore, we have a net increase on the asset side of the balance sheet of $8,000. Well, that comes from $10,000 minus the $2,000, and that gives you the $8,000. Remembering that assets always equal liabilities where liabilities include short term liabilities, long term liabilities, and equity, the liabilities side must also show an increase of $8,000. And that's where we see that this increase of $8,000 increase in retained earnings. Another way to illustrate this is to show both the income statement and the balance sheet at the same time attract the changes coming from this very same case. This helps us understand how the transaction of sale works this way through each of these different statements. Again, it's a graphical representation. We're going over the same material. Let's start with the sale. We sell a product for $10,000. Here again revenue is increased by $10,000. We're getting $10,000 in cash, so our current asset of cash account goes up by $10,000. Well OK, we recognize the cost of goods sold for the products that we sold. In this case, the cost of the system was $2,000, so there's our $2,000 increase in costs. Well, but at the same time in the balance sheet that $2,000 cost was matched with the revenue, and that takes out $2,000 from the inventory current asset account, the current asset inventory account that is. With that impact here of course, shows the convergence of these activities, these transactions. On the income statement, we have $10,000 minus the $2,000, and that gives us an $8,000 increase in profit. On the balance sheet, we see a net increase in assets of $8,000, mentioned that before. And then, of course the corresponding increase on the right side of the balance sheet-- with the liabilities under the total liabilities-- with an increase of $8,000 in owner's equity. Now, we've only talked about one transaction or one type of transaction, the sale of a product. But how do we represent the impact of other supply chain initiatives on the financial reports? For example, how would improving operational performance impact the financial statements, such as improving the cycle time, making faster deliveries, or increasing inventory terms? Well, this slide provides a line item for a number of different supply chain changes and offers a linkage to various financial reports and elements in the financial reports. Let's start with order cycle times we see up here, and I'll walk through each of these different items. If the company improves the order cycle time, the production and delivery cycle is shorter, meaning that your cash cycle is going to be shorter, too. You're going to get your cash sooner. Well, therefore your accounts receivable will likely be smaller, because you're receiving the cash more quickly than you had otherwise. As a result of the faster order cycle time, the company will not need as much inventory, and therefore the faster order cycle time may result in lower capital costs, which means lower cost and higher net income. Let's think about this. If the company reduces the order cycle time, that usually means that the warehousing operation has to handle the product fewer times, because they're not storing it, and pulling it out, and storing it again, and moving products around in the warehouse, which means that the warehousing costs would be lower. That shows up in the income statement as a reduction in cost. Now, because the company has improved the order cycle time, you're able to get the product to market more quickly than your competitor. And you have therefore created some competitive advantage. How does that competitive advantage impact the financial statements? Well, having a competitive advantage means that with all things being the same, the customers would prefer your product to your competitor's product. In the marketplace that means that with a competitive advantage the company can choose to sell more product at the same price as their competitor, which would increase their market share. Or the company can choose to sell their product for a higher price, which would increase their profits. In both cases, the company would increase their revenues by virtue of the actions that they've taken, either from more unit sales or from the same unit sales but at a higher price. Let's look at some of the other supply chain initiatives that may impact the financial reports. If the firm improves their ability to deliver on time orders, that means that the company will likely have higher customer satisfaction ratings. And therefore, the company may enjoy some additional competitive advantage. Just as we've discussed, the competitive advantage can finds its way to increase the revenue on the income statement. With an increase in on time orders, delays are reduced, which probably entails lower transportation cost, because there's no embedded cost for delays or surcharges for delays in those transportation cost. This shows up in the income statement as a reduction in cost. Now, if the company's able to produce and ship products and deliver them as ordered-- meaning exactly as what the customer's ordered-- that means the company has a higher fill rate, which means getting their cash faster. Because they're not arguing with the customer about what product was sold and whether they got the right stuff. They got the right stuff, and therefore their bills are going to be submitted, and they'll be paid within their particular cycle time, which practically speaking means the company's cash is not tied up in those silly arguments between companies about whether they got the right product or not. Now let's also look at accurate billing. If the company can improve billing accuracy, that means reducing the invoicing errors, which means the company will likely have lower order management costs. And again, that shows up in the income statement as a reduction in cost. And then lastly, improving inventory turns can impact the balance sheet and the income statement. With an increase in inventory turns, the requirement for inventory drops, meaning that less inventory is required to support the same level of sales. And therefore, one would expect that you would see a lower current asset inventory account. And similar to some of the other improvements, with less inventory, there's less handling, which means lower costs. And possibly with less inventory the company may not need all of the existing distribution centers. Well, if that happens, then-- and the company were elected to actually eliminate a distribution center, then the impact would show up as a reduction on the balance sheet in the long term asset, plant property, and equipment account. So as we see, with each of these initiatives, they find their way to the income statement and the balance sheet. Let's look at the same supply chain initiatives and their impact on the financial statements graphically. We'll do this quickly just to give you an idea, another kind of look at the same assessment. An improvement in service level creates competitive advantage that can lead to market share gains and price premiums, which lead to higher revenues. And we see how these hit the income statement and resulting increased profits, which then show up on the balance sheet in retained earnings. Lower cost from improved order management, less handling, and lower capital cost shows up in the income statement as reductions in cost and the associated increase in profits. Lower inventory could result in lower cost in the income statement and increases in cash and reduction in inventory levels on the balance sheet. Cycle time improvements can create competitive advantage, which we have seen how that impacts the statements. It also impacts lower inventory levels, which we have just discussed, and it could also make for lower capital costs, which impacts the profits on the income statement. Finally, inventory turns can affect the balance sheet by requiring less current asset inventory on the books, requiring lower working capital. So we see here there are lots of connections from the supply chain to the financial statements. So let's talk about key points. We've shown we can connect supply chain transactions and the impact of initiatives directly to the income statement and the balance sheet. This is incredibly powerful. This allows a supply chain leader to communicate directly with the company leaders in the primary language of business. That is in financial terms. There's great power available to the supply chain managers who are able to do this, recognizing that this ability derives for understanding the foundation of accounting principles, practices, and application of these to the supply chain domain. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use the discussion area. And I look forward to seeing you in the next session.
