OK, now we're going to solve the exact same problem, the NERD 2 problem, but instead of just reporting the distance metrics passively, we're going to enforce them as constraints. So I'm adding level of service constraints, and I'm going to add two of them. So what I've got here is the formulation. Nothing has changed except for these two new constraints that I'm about to explain. OK, so I'm going to add a new constraint for the max average distance and the minimum percent within 50 miles. So let me talk about the first one. What I've got here is I'm saying for every x_ij I want to multiply it by the distance, because that's the weighted distance. And I'm going to divide it by the total demand because I want to know the percent. And so this is telling me the average distance. So if I sum that up for all the x_ij's I'll get an average weighted distance. So to do this I need the distance matrix, and that's what I've got down here in the lower left. So the distance going from Nashua to Providence is 72 miles, right? This is the same distance matrix that we showed in previous slides. So that's the average weighted distance, and it's going to be less than equal to some value. That's an input value. That's a number that you put in. Notice that this isn't saying for all i's or for all j's. This sums across for all of the x_ij's. So this is only one constraint. It's not like a class of constraints, it's a single value. So it's saying across all of the flows going to customers, what's the maximum average distance? It has to be less than some value that I'm giving it. The next constraint we added is this percent of demand that's within 50 miles of a DC. It's got to be above a certain amount. So the right-hand side of this constraint is an input that you put in there. I need to make sure it's at least 30%, 40%, whatever. The left-hand side-- it's a little trickier. I'm going to multiply each of the flows. So this is the number of units through x_ij, and I'm multiplying that by this new input data, which is a constant, a_ij. And a_ij is something that I input. a_ij is equal to 1 if customer j served by DCi is within 50 miles. It's 0 otherwise. So what I have here in the lower right-hand corner is the a_ij matrix. And I just created this by looking at the distance matrix. So for example, if-- let's pick one-- let's say if I want to pick Nashua. If Nashua is served out of Boston, is it within 50 miles? Why yes, it is. So therefore I make that 1. If Nashua is served out of Nashua is it less than 50 miles? Yeah, of course. It's 0. It's the same city. If Nashua was served from Providence it's 72, so that's why that's a 0, and so on. I did this-- it's a one time. I just used an if statement and you create this matrix. So what it's saying is if there's a 1, then if I'm serving that destination from the selected distribution center, it's either in 50 miles or it's not. So what I'm doing is I'm multiplying again, and it only counts the ones that are within 50 miles, and again I divide it by the total demand. So it's taking the percentage, the percentage of the total demand that's within 50 miles. So these are how I set it up in the formulation. It's a little tricky. Think about it. This sum of the d_j is not a variable. I put this in-- these are inputs. So this is just simply the sum of all the demand. I just want to find the weighted average for these two distances. So what does it look like in our spreadsheet? Well, let me just show you some of the rows. What I did here, and you have the spreadsheet available for you-- I added a new a_ij values in row 8, and it's simply equal to 1 if the distance is less than 50 miles, 0 otherwise. I just did that once, so that's now input data. So it tells me if I have this DC serving this customer, it either is or is not within this 50 miles that I have deemed is important. Then I've got some things here in this part of the spreadsheet. Let me just blow it up a little bit. Remember, this is my objective function. And so I've got these two new constraints, and these are in rows 97 and 98. So there's a lot of other stuff in between here, between rows 4, 90-- all the other constraints. I just wanted to show you the new constraints that we're adding. So for the minimum average distance on row 97, each of these cells is simply the distance divided by the sum of the demand-- the total demand, which in this case, from Boston to Brattleboro-- BO to BR-- is 93/1746, or 0.05326. Now my spreadsheet's just truncating it to two decimals. The value is there. It's just not displaying them all. Then for the min, or the max percent within 50, same thing for cell H98 here for the max percent within 50 miles constraint. It's just that a value, which in this case, if I serve Boston from Boston, it's within 50 miles, so that's why it's a 1 divided by the total demand. It's 0.0005727. It's only displaying two decimal places. The actual value is in there. So you see we populate-- that's what's populating all of this part of the spreadsheet. For each x_ij, we give what the weighted average and the mean average distance would be, and also whether it's within 50 miles. And on the right-hand side, you can see this is what will happen. Let me just clean this up just a tad. I have on the right-hand side for my left-hand side of the equation, of the spreadsheet, I have the exact same function that I've used before. It's just a sum product. It's a sum product of its own row times the decision variables. That's it. It hasn't changed. That's why I love this format for showing problems. I'm using the exact same function, and it's going to be less than equal to, for the first one-- 60, because that's my max average distance. And I say 80% here, for I want to have at least 80% of the population, or of the demand, within 50 miles. So that's how I set it up on my spreadsheet, and I can solve it as open solver. And the only thing I've done is I've added these two new constraints. The first one is saying that my average distance has to be less than a certain value. The second one is saying that the percent within 50 miles has to be above a certain value. And I can just solve this pressing the solve button. Make sure I'm on Simplex, nothing else has changed. And it'll open four distribution centers, and the average distance will be 15 miles. 90% of the customers will be less than 50 miles, total cost $66,781. So what have I done? The level of service constraints drove the problem. Remember, optimally, if I didn't have to consider this at all, I only open three of the distribution centers for a lower cost. But what this showed me is that for a little more money I can get a better service level. So depending, now you can see how I can use this. I could go back and say, well, maybe 80% isn't needed. Maybe I could do 75%, 74%. And as the problem gets more complex, I can play with these numbers and I can say OK, what does the cost really increase? Does it increase dramatically? Because if I look back, my solution for having three distribution centers open isn't that much more expensive. In fact, if I look at it, it was only $66,285. So it was $66,285. So this really, really quick analysis shows, you know what, for less than $500 a week I can improve my service level dramatically. So maybe I don't want to do that optimal lowest cost solution. Maybe I want to enforce some of these constraints. This is the beauty of a network model. I can make these analysis and I can test the sensitivity, because one of the things you need to remember-- an optimization model will do anything to save $1. Anything. So you need to test the solution around the edges and see what works, and see what makes realistic sense.
