So let's talk about the master production schedule. So what is the master production schedule? Well, a couple points to help you understand exactly where it fits in to the whole process-- the MPS is the basic communication tool between the market that you're trying to serve and the manufacturing plan and capabilities that you control. It's a statement of the production, not of the demand. It is not a forecast. It actually takes as an input the forecasted demand. And it tries to translate that into a manufacturing plan that determines, what do I produce when, and in what quantities? Now, the reason why it is not demand-- you can think of it for two main reasons. First, if have a peak demand, say, at the end of the year, I will probably have to start producing things way ahead of time. So you can think that production might lead or lag the actual demand. Secondly, it might be in very different quantities. My demand is probably going to be in eaches or small lots. But my production, due to economies of scale and other things, might be in bigger batches. So my production will not match my demand. It's when I want to produce things to be able to meet the demand. It also does some other things. It lets me let sales know when I can promise product-- available to promise. That's something that's really key. And we'll talk about that in a later lesson. But you can think of it as tying together production and sales. It's a statement of the planned future output of the firm itself. Now, it differs a little bit by the manufacturing strategy that your firm has or the product line that you're looking at. And we've talked before about four basic strategies here. The first is engineer to order where I'm making something one of a kind, and when the order comes, not only do I have to procure the materials and manufacture it, assemble it, and deliver it, I have to design it so it's a one of a kind product-- very long delivery lead time. Then you can think of make to order. And here, I don't start making the product until I get the order. But I can start getting some of the raw materials that I know I'll be using ahead of time. What type of materials will I need here? Well, I'll have mainly raw materials that go into the manufacture of many products. For assemble to order, it moves it down a little closer. And so the delivery time is a little shorter. Because I can make components and other WIP, Work In Process. So these are subcomponents, assemblies, things that I will then assemble into final customized product. And finally you've got make to stock. And what we have here is I make things to a forecast and then deliver it to the market. So the inventory I will have here is mainly going to be finished goods. A couple points-- first, look, as I go from Engineer to Order down to Make to Stock, my delivery lead time shrinks dramatically. So that's good for satisfying demand. Now, the challenge is as I move from engineer to order, where there's essentially zero order there, because I don't know what I need until I finish designing it is I move down to raw materials to work in process to finished goods, they are harder and harder to forecast. Because for finished goods, it's for an individual end item. For WIP, it probably goes to multiple items. So I'm aggregating-- a little easier to forecast, raw materials even more so. So while my delivery lead times shrinks, the type of inventory that I'm planning gets much harder to forecast. Also, the thing that I'm planning in my MPS changes. From make to stock, because this is probably going to a consumer, I'm going to be making my production plan based on my finished goods. For assemble to order or things going more business to business, if you're selling to another industry, then you're probably going to be forecasting and planning some of your components, some of your assemblies. So it differs, based on the strategy that you have, what you're going to actually be planning for in your master production schedule. How do we manage it? Well, we use something called a time phased record, pretty straightforward. It's simply telling me over a period of time-- and in this example, there are six time periods. Let's call them monthly buckets. That's fairly standard-- how much my forecast is, what I'm planning to produce each period, and what I have available for my balance, what inventory I have on hand. So for this example, I've got 30 units in time zero, which is now. It's a current time. And then here in this first row, you can see what the forecasted demand is by period. And again, this is not my forecast. This is an input to the MPS. Then what I try to determine is the production plan. How much will I make in time period one, two, three, four, and so on. Now, based on that, that'll determine how much inventory I have. Because this should look familiar. It's an inventory balance equation. We've talked about this before. It's essentially a conservation of flow. So the amount of inventory I have in this time period, time period one, is going to be equal to what I had the time period before plus whatever I produce in that time period minus whatever I forecasted. Because I assume I'm taking my inventory and satisfying that demand. So all that it's telling me is that inventory has to go somewhere. It has to come from somewhere. And so it accounts for any place it can come from and go to. Now, what we want to do is come up with a production strategy to satisfy this demand. And you can see there's probably multiple ways to do this. There are two classic strategies-- level and chase. Let's talk about each of them. For level, the objective, as you would think by its name, is to keep the production level, the manufacturing, stable and level throughout the time period. How do I figure that out? Well, I look at the sum of the forecasted demand, subtract out my inventory at time zero when I start, divided by the number of periods. So in my simple example, if I look at my demand, it sums up to 90. And so I have six periods. I produced 15 each. That's shown in this chart here in this nice, stable red line. And so what does this result in? Well, if you look at time period one, I'm producing more than I need. So my inventory level is going up actually. So the inventory will not necessarily match exactly what my demand is. Because I'm producing it ahead of time in order to keep my production level. You can see the blue line here is simply the forecast. And the green line on this chart is showing my projected available balance or my inventory on hand. So what are the pros here? Well, as the name implies, smooth and stable production operations. I'm not suddenly adding capacity, taking it off. I'm not switching things. I'm minimizing the need for extra production capacity. I'm not firing people and rehiring them during slow periods. So that's a definite pro. Negatives, some cons? It can lead to excessive inventory. We saw this in periods zero, one, and two where I was producing way more than the demand that I needed, so I built up excessive inventory. Conversely, this can result in shortages during peak demand periods if I'm keeping my production level. So that's one strategy. The second strategy is chase. And for this, I want to match my production level to the demand each period. And so my production in time t is going to equal the forecast given that I hit some level of demand. Call that safety stock. So in my example, I want to make sure that I have at least five units on hand for each period. Well, I'm starting with 30. So what's going to happen the first two periods? I'm producing nothing. Because I want to catch up. I want to get it down so that my inventory level stays at five. That's that green line here. What does that mean for production? I'm producing nothing the first two periods. Then for period three, I produce what they demand, period four, five, and six the same thing. So as of period three, I'm chasing, I'm staying right with my forecasted demand. But prior to that, I was producing nothing for the first two time periods. What are the pros? Well, inventory is kept to a minimum. That's what I'm really guiding, my production plan. And the product is only made when required. So I'm minimizing my obsolescence. Some negatives-- big, wild swings in labor and production needs. I produced nothing for two months. So think in practical terms, what do I do? Do I lay the people off? Do I put them on furlough? Do I let the machines just lay idle? So it's kind of a challenge. You have some cons there. It requires the firm to have capacity equal to demand at peak. And the utilization of equipment will be very inconsistent. This is exactly what we saw. So we saw these two production strategies, level and chase. And these are pure strategies. Very rarely will a company just do one or the other. In fact, what typically happens is they follow some kind of hybrid strategy. And one hybrid strategy of this is using outsourcing or subcontracting. So let's say that my demand looks something like this. I know it's going to have these humps and these peaks and valleys. Well, what I might want to do is say, you know what? For my production plan, I will produce to this level. So I'll have a level strategy here. And then I will outsource these peaks. So the variable part I will outsource. And I'll outsource this to a contract manufacturer or some other source so I can keep my facilities level. And then I have this other outsourced facility to handle the variability. That's one strategy. And then another strategy we can do, when you make your production plan, is to make some cost trade-offs. Because remember, all we did before was say, either we produce level, or I match the forecasted demand. We know there's going to be trade-offs when you produce. Because there are fixed costs and variable costs. So what we want to do is figure, what are the optimal trade-offs? And we're going to look at lot sizing. And this is where we get into that fixed planning horizon. So that's what we're going to do next. We're going to look at different ways to solve this fixed planning horizon problem.
