Welcome to lesson two in the second week of supply chain finance. We're going to talk about discounted cash flow analysis. In the last lesson, we talked about cash flows that happen in our supply chain. We're now going to analyze and then make decisions. So if you remember from the last lesson where we left off, we talked about investment evaluations, and we learned how to estimate the future cash flows and the relevant future cash flows. We now need to focus on how to calculate a figure of merit and compare it to an acceptance criterion in making a decision. So basically, we've taken our supply chain and turned that into cash flows here. And now we need to take those cash flow projections and turn those into a decision about our supply chain design. And we're using very standard financial techniques to do this. So we'll start by introducing a few figures of merit and acceptance criterion as illustrations, and they're ones that can be useful. But they don't incorporate something called the time value of money, the fact that today's money is worth more than money in the future. So we want to incorporate that by looking at a discount rate. We'll discount any future cash flows by a rate to determine what their value is today. That's the fundamental basis for the key figures of merit we'll use in discounting cash flow analysis, net present value, and internal rate of return. That's the fundamental approaches we'll use to analyze the cash flows. We'll also talk about terminal value. At the end of the projected cash flow horizon, there may be future cash flows that are still going to create value. And we'll talk about how to turn those into something called the terminal value and incorporate them in our evaluation. And finally, we'll look at inventory holding costs, which is an important parameter in designing supply chains, and we will make sure that we're incorporating all those inventories holding costs appropriately in our discounted cash flow analysis. There's a lot of material, so let's get moving.
