So let's talk about some different distribution design options that are out there. So what I'm going to do is show a series of designs. They're going to include a manufacturer, a retailer, and then, in the red down there are the consumers, or the end customers. Now I might have a distributor, or wholesaler, come in, but I'll talk through that. So the most traditional distribution, at least in the United States and for large retailers, is what's known as a multi-tiered distribution network. And that's where the retailer and all the retailer's facilities and operations are in green. They place an order to a manufacturer. The product flows from that manufacturer's either its plant, or from its own DC. But it leaves the manufacturer, comes to the distribution center owned by the retailer, and then they collect it from multiple manufacturers and distribute usually full truckloads, or some delivery, to its individual stores. And the diamonds, or excuse me, the little triangles are the stores. And then the consumer goes and buys the product. So I made this very traditional in that the consumer goes to the store, and that'll be consistent for this segment. And so we see the product flowing from the manufacturer to the retailer's DCs down to the stores, multiple echelons. And we could also have another manufacturer in there, and they would place an order for that manufacturer. And the consolidation occurs at the distribution center of the retailer. Now, what are the pros and cons? This flow leverages the retailers' economies of scale. So retailers love this, right, because they can have more products flowing through their network. And it achieves the economies of scale at their facilities, as well as it fills up those line haul truckloads. However, it comes at the cost of a lot of handling. So you get touched at the DC. You get touched at the retail store. And so it gets touched a fair amount. On the inbound side, from the manufacturer, or the vendor, to the DC, look what it needs to do. We need to justify a full load from that manufacturer for each DC because it's going directly. So what does that mean? Think back to some earlier logistics courses. That means I might have to take longer to justify the demand to justify a truckload or full delivery. So it might take a little more time. On the outbound, though, the DCs are consolidating for those multiple vendors down to the stores. So there will be a high level of inventory at the retail locations because we're pushing everything down. We'll have lower transportation costs because we're going directly from the manufacturer to the DC. And it's good for fast moving items. We can move things very quickly through this. And there's pretty short transit times from the vendors, the manufacturers, to the stores. It'll move pretty quickly. So compare that to this network. This is what's known as having mixing centers or hubs. And notice that this mix center is owned by the retailer. That's why it's in green. So the retailer places an order through its manufacturers. And then they ship product to the mixing center. And so then the mixing center sends full shipments down to the distribution centers of the retailer. And then it flows down to the stores. And the consumers go to the stores. The difference from this and the previous three-tier is that we have this mixing center. So now what this means is I can get more regular shipments from the mix center to the DC from all my different vendors, all my different manufacturers. I don't need to wait for a full truckload, or full quantity, to justify that trip. I'm mixing them. So pros and cons, we're still leveraging that economies of scale within the retailer's network on both the inbound and outbound now. The DCs are able to mix products from multiple sources. And we'll still have a high level of inventory down at those retail locations. Now, this is better for slow moving items. And we'll talk more about this as we move forward. And it has a longer transit time from vendors to stores because, again, instead of going directly from the manufacturer to the DC, it's going through this mixing center, so it can add an extra day. But there are benefits here because I can have more frequent deliveries from the slow moving vendors. You can compare that to a distributor's, or a wholesaler's, network. This is where the retailer places the order to the distributor maybe for its beer, for example, to have that delivered. And then they will get replenished by the manufacturers. And the distributor will go to the DCs, typically, of the retailer. And then they'll flow down to the stores. Consumers will go to the stores and select, view, receive, and pay for the goods at the store. Now pros and cons, this leverages the distributor's economics. But there is a lot of handling, right? It's handled at the manufacturer, at the distributor, at the DC level. There's also still a lot of inventory stored at the retail locations. But I am able to consolidate product from multiple vendors here, multiple manufacturers. That's one of the things that a distributor, or a wholesaler, can do. So there will be high level of inventory still at the retail stores. We have lower transportation costs through this scale economics. And this is good for really much slower moving items, or specialty items, that a distributor has. And it has a slightly higher cost because you're paying this third-party now. This distributor, this middleman, is in there. But they serve a purpose. They consolidate and aggregate product of much slower moving product. Then we have what's known as direct to store delivery, or DSD. And this is where the manufacturer has an order placed to it by the retailer. And instead of going to the DC, they go straight to the stores. That's why it's called direct to store delivery, or DSD. So they'll go to each store. And oftentimes what the merchant, or the vendor, will do is merchandise the shelf. And all that that means is they make it look pretty so you want to buy something. So if it's potato chips, they'll fluff them up and make sure it looks full, put extra ones in. They'll place the order. They're essentially managing the retailer's shelf. And the consumer goes and buys the product. So pros and cons here. This leverages the vendor's economics. So a company like Coca-Cola or Pepsi will deliver DSD, direct store delivery. Most beverages will be delivered this way. Newspapers, some kind of snack foods will be delivered this way. Sometimes frozen pizza comes this way. Why? Well, for the vendor, I'm bypassing the DC. I'm getting closer to my customer because remember, the manufacturer wants to get as close as possible to the consumer that's buying their product. This way, they essentially own the shelf. They can make it look better, and they can make sure the product is fresh. That's the thought of it. Now the retailer side, many retailers don't like DSD. They prefer not to have someone deliver to my retail outlet because the deliveries aren't always sequenced when I want them. Sometimes if the beverage truck comes, it might block my whole store. They'll deliver in the middle of the day. They would rather control their own destiny. So there is a little loss of control of the product flow and availability by the retailer. And so there's always a give and take over what goes DSD and what goes more traditional through the retailer's distribution channel. But it's widely used in the United States, certainly, for select items. And you'll see this with a one or two-person team where the first person might go to a store, check what needs to go in, and place the order. And the second vehicle coming behind it will actually replenish. And so there's a lot of different strategies here. But DSD is a commonly used distribution channel. Then we have dropshipping. And this is where the consumer now orders from the retailer. We haven't had this before. Everything so far has been the consumer walks to the store or drives to the store, and that's where they view, they order, they pay, and they receive the product. Now, I'm placing an order. Whether it's electronically, over a phone, fax, carrier pigeon, it doesn't matter. I place an order to the retailer. They, in turn, place an order to the manufacturer. And the manufacturer ships directly to me, so me being the consumer. So the classic case here is computers, the Dell computer model, we talked about already. It actually has quite a slow response time eventually to the consumer because it's coming all the way from the manufacturer. It's not sitting at the retail store. So you tend to think this is mainly for more customized products. It allows for that high level of customization where you might be the only unique buyer who has that certain configuration. And remember, this is different because the consumer now places the order. And it triggers what's known as a pull, right? It's pulling the product through. Everything I've talked about before has essentially been a push all the way down to the stores. That is, it's operating off of a forecast. So we bypass the retail DCs. This could reduce congestion at the DCs and the stores. It might hollow them out, though. So you don't know. It's a trade-off, but as another delivery distribution. The other thing to note is that the amount of touches are totally minimized. It's only touched at the manufacturer and the final consumer. There's not these intermediate touches. And as we've talked before, any time you touch the product, you slow it down. You break it and think bad things happen. So when at all possible, you try to do this direct or dropshipping. So this is another channel. So I showed five different distribution designs. And the wrong question to ask is which is the best? They're all there for a different purpose. And in fact, most companies will have multiple channels. The idea of a company having one supply chain or one distribution channel just doesn't make sense. You really have a selection based on the velocity of the product, that is the demand. As you have higher demand, that means it's moving through your system faster, higher turns, all of those kind of things. The desired response time to consumers, if you want something immediate, then you probably want to move on one of the distributions on the left where you push product to the store rather than the dropshipping. And then the physical characteristics might lead you to a direct store delivery, or DSD, and the value of the products. So any retailer will probably have a mix of these. They'll have some DSD. They'll have some things that-- products they only can get through a distributor. Some they get through their own mixing center, and some through their own tiers of distribution. So this is just a snapshot of five traditional, or typical, distribution options that are out there.
