Our first lesson this week focuses on cash flows. We're going to talk a lot about cash flows this week. The different types of cash flows inside of a firm, the magnitude and the timing of cash flows. And most importantly, we'll learn how to describe our supply chain designs in terms of cash flows. So we'll start by introducing, again, revisiting the concept of a supply chain being comprised of three types of flows, physical, information, and financial flows. And we're really going to focus on these financial flows throughout this whole week because they form the basis of evaluating our supply chain designs. The decisions that are made inside of a firm regarding budgeting, where to put budgets, as well as the way that the firm describes how it's creating value for investors are all based on financial flows. And most specifically, what we'll get to toward the end of the lesson are free cash flows. These are the basis for evaluation. So no matter which metrics you use to come up with your designs or describe them within the supply chain organization, we will need to boil them down to free cash flows in order to compete for resources and budget with other groups inside the firm. So it's an important process. So we're going to get to free cash flows at the end. On the way we'll start with a brief review of corporate finance. For those of you familiar with corporate finance, it'll make sure that we're on the same page in terms of the terminology we're using. For those of you less comfortable with finance, it may help you focus on the most relevant concepts that we're going to cover this week and identify where you may want to bone up a bit more on those concepts. Then we'll dive into different types of cash flows. We have to first describe how we're going to estimate the cash flows in the future that are going to be based on the designs we're coming up with. And these are the projected cash flows. Then we'll learn how to distinguish which of the cash flows are specifically relevant to our initiatives, the designs that we're coming up with in our supply chain, and make sure we're only counting the ones that are relevant. And then we'll combine these into the free cash flows. And we have a framework and a structure for you to do this and show some examples of how to take supply chain designs and turn them into free cash flows. We'll close this lesson with a bit more discussion of working capital. Working capital is something that almost every one of our supply chain initiatives is going to have an impact on. And it's often difficult to think about how this capital becomes a cash flow. So we'll spend some time talking about that as well. All right, let's get started.
