Now let's dive a little deeper into reverse logistics and talk about the different options I have for recovering products that have been returned. So we've talked about the downstream process, the source, make, and deliver that we've been using since the beginning of these courses. And to talk about the whole supply chain, the reverse supply chain, I need to extend this a little bit. So on the left side, the sourcing side, I need to include the extraction process and the transformation process. Think of extraction as taking the raw materials. This could be metal from the ground, this could be rubber from plants. So you extract that material, you transform it somehow into something I can use, you source it, you make it, deliver it, and now we need to extend it on the other side in that the product is used. So this is the whole life cycle of a product from extraction to end of use. So at the end of its use, it usually gets returned, and so you're going to do something with it, whether you're going to recycle it or not, but it has to be collected, and transported to some location where they sort and make a disposition on it. They make a decision, and the standard decisions are do I reuse it, do I refurbish or repair it, do I remanufacture, do I cannibalize it, do I recycle it. So we'll explain each of these in more detail, but essentially, what you're determining is what do I do with this return product. Now, these first three, what's interesting about them and common about them, they will return the product to that delivery part of your supply chain, that last loop before it goes to the customer. And this is where that closed loop supply chain process goes. Think of pallets. Pallets gets used, they get returned and reused. Containers, all of those things. But also things that are repaired or refurbished or remanufactured. They can get pushed back to that delivery cycle. If I cannibalize or recycle it, that's pushing it further upstream. And so another option that we haven't listed yet, of course, is disposal. I get rid of it. It's not worth anything. So I sent it to a landfill, I incinerate it, I do something with it just to get rid of it. So you've got this whole reverse flow now, and this shows the whole closed loop. And so what I want to do now is dive into each of these options a little more, because they differ in a bunch of interesting ways. And the main difference is where they enter back into the supply chain. So my supply chain is going from raw materials, through parts fabrication, modules assembly, product assembly, distribution, the end users, then here's my reverse. I have different options here for direct reuse. It goes into distribution, repair, refurbishing, remanufacturing, cannibalization, recycling, and disposal. You see they hit the supply chain at different locations. So let's go through each of them individually. First one, direct reuse or resale. Now we talked a second ago about reuseable articles. These are the pallets, containers, totes, things like that. Or products that are reused like those bicycles, books, VCR tapes, anything that gets reused by multiple users. So when those things come in, then you inspect them, and if need sterilize, clean, prepare them for redeployment, and they can be used across the firm or across the network, depending on how generalized they are. But there's a whole series of other products that are not meant to be reusable. So these are, say, shirts or shoes that I ordered online. I get them and they're wrong size. So I return them. If I haven't used them, then they can be inspected, deemed ready for reuse, and put right back into the distribution cycle. So I can be distributing them to another person who requests them. So that's the fastest way back for returns. The next group, where I have to do something to the product. So the first level is repair. So think of a smartphone, because if anyone has kids, they know that kids drop their smartphones and the screen cracks. So what when you send that back for return cycle, they will take that and return it back to working order. So this will involve fixing or replacing broken parts. In this case, the new screen, that glass screen. So repair is where you get it back to working order. Refurbish is where you bring them up to a slightly higher quality level, and that can be specified. So you might replace critical modules, you might inspect or fix or replace them, and sometimes this includes a technology upgrade. And at the higher level is remanufacturing. And this is where the products are brought up, not to a certain quality level, but to the same level as rigorous as the new products themselves. So remanufactured goods should be just as good as a primary manufactured good. And so you've made a lot more work to it, you replace a lot more parts. Then we can think of cannibalization. And cannibalization is where that product is used to recover reusable parts and components from it, and you're going to use those and other products. When I was in the military, I ran a motor pool for a couple years, and what we did there is if a vehicle, a truck was being retired, we'd almost strip it for parts. So you use it, you're cannibalizing it, to use for other products. And so you usually only cannibalize a small portion of the products, and the remaining parts would be recycled or disposed of. And so, this is commonly used when computers come back, you grab some of the integrated circuits. So anytime you can cannibalize key components or modules, you do that. It makes sense. And then you've got recycling. And from this, I'm taking the products, the materials, that were used to make it, and I'm going to process them somehow to be reused in the production of other components or other parts. Think of metals, paper, cardboards, plastic. I'm taking it down to almost its raw material, and that goes back in to the parts fabrication stage. So you can see, as I get more intensive, I move further upstream. And then of course, the last option there is disposal. And that just means you get rid of it, whether it's a landfill or incineration of some sort. So these are the options that you have. And so hopefully, you get a sense of the differences between forward and reverse logistics. And every supply chain has both. It's just the reverse logistics has become more important over the last 10 to 20 years. So in forecasting, we all know forecasting is hard, but it's harder for reverse logistics, because you have this uncertainty of when the end of life will happen. The transportation is a mirror opposite of the forward. It's a many to one instead of a one to many, and both product quality and packaging. Instead of being uniform, as coming out in a forward logistics, it's very different. That's the reason why it's being brought back. The quality might be severely degraded, and you don't know how far it will take to repair and bring back up to standard. The destination routing is relatively clear going forward. You have a plan. It's unclear coming back. The pricing is very widely unknown. The delivery speed is usually not considered a priority. No one's rushing to get scrap back, and so it has a much slower cadence. The distribution costs are not directly visible, they're not transparent. Inventory management is not consistent, because it's already off the books in many cases. And real time information is generally not available. So there's a lot of challenges over and beyond the forward logistics, that reverse logistics has to deal with. So why do we care? Well, we care for a bunch of reasons, actually. The first is, we're doing more of it. We're increasing the amount of waste generated. Every day in the United States, more than 300,000 cell phones are disposed of. In the European Union, each citizen over the course of a year generates about 17 to 20 kilograms of technological waste. So we're generating more of it. These products contain hazardous material, lead, cadmium, mercury, things that are not good for the environment, or for the health of humans. And we have a shrinking product lifecycle, so these cell phones, the life cycle is only 18 months now. Laptops, 24 months. So we're generating more of it, it has hazardous materials, and the product lifecycle is getting faster, so there's going to be even more of it coming along. And there's an increase in the amount of regulations. In some regions and predominantly the European Union, producers are being held responsible for the environmentally safe disposal of their products. This is called extended producer responsibility. And so, many different end of life waste framework directives in the EU have been handed down for batteries, vehicles, tires, and other things. Other regions, this is going to be happening as well. Sometimes there's marketplace solutions for this. Other times, there's regulatory solutions, but you're going to see more of it in either case. So you'll only have more of this reverse or return logistics happening within your supply chain.
