OK, that was a big lesson. We covered a lot of material here. So what are the key takeaways? Well, we actually looked at solving one problem-- facility location problems. Where should I open my facilities? And we looked at in in two ways. We solved them two different ways. The first, we made an assumption that it was a continuous selection. Any place was equally likely. And so we looked at two different methods here-- the center of gravity method-- which minimized the volume times the distance squared, which is similar to what we'd see in physics-- and then Weber model, which minimized the volume times the distance. And that's what this function is for. And if you're going to use this for network design, you really want to use the Weber model, because that's what you're really worried about. You're worried about minimizing the distance traveled. This is very intuitive-- the center of gravity method-- but it really doesn't quite work for what we're looking for for network design. But in reality, well, looking at continuous selections is fun. It's interesting to see where that center would be. You don't use it in practice, because every location is not the same. They're not all fungible. Something's near a highway. Something's not. It could be that your center location is in the middle of a lake. So you really want to look at candidates. So when you look at discrete candidate selection, you're going to use a mixed integer linear program. And the trade-offs are going to be between many different costs, and subject to different level of service and other constraints. And the costs are going to be-- what we've looked at-- is outbound transportation costs and fixed facility or DC costs. This was the formulation that we used. And there are many different formulations. We'll continue to add to this and modify it. But what we had was the objective function, which is minimizing my cost, my variable transportation cost, and my fixed facility costs. I had constraints that made sure I kept within what I had available for supply. I kept and made sure my demand was met. I made sure that if I had a flow coming from a distribution center, I actually opened the distribution center. I had constraints that set the minimum and maximum number of distribution centers I could open. I introduced a series of constraints that set a minimum level of service in terms of maximum average distance. The minimum percentage of the demand within 50 miles had to be at least a certain amount. And then I had my non-negativity constraints for my continuous variables, which are the flows, the x_ij's. And the y_i's are binary, either 0 or 1. So the tool-- we use this as a decision support tool. And it informs the decision making process. It doesn't make the decision. You always want to conduct sensitivity analysis whenever you run these models. Because as you do more of these models, you start noticing some things. For example, optimization models are decision support tools. They will only suggest solutions. They shouldn't dictate a solution to you. They're deterministic. They assume perfect data. And they will do anything to save a dollar. If cost is in your objective function, you're asking this model to do anything to save that one additional dollar. So you need to do sensitivity analysis to understand, well, what did it give up to find that last dollar? Maybe it's something that doesn't make sense in reality. So they're deterministic. And we'll talk about this later, in that the data you gave them-- we assume that demand doesn't change-- that there is no variability. If I say demand in Boston for root beer is 420 units, it is 420 units. So we'll loosen that and see, OK, how do I get some stochastic or some variability built in for robuster models? We assume that the data is perfect. If I tell you the transportation cost is 3.2, it's 3.2. So the model doesn't take into consideration if my data is not perfect. And like I said, it does anything-- anything-- to reduce the cost if that's in the objective function. Your model will never include everything and have complete and perfect information. You can try to make it as realistic as possible, but there's a trade-off. As you make your model more and more complex, trying to make it more and more complete, you're making an assumption that if I get more precise, it's going to be more accurate. And that's actually not the case. Because you're making more and more assumptions as I include more data, I'm assuming that more data is perfect. So there's a trade-off there of how much you want to include in the model. Because again, this is a decision support tool. And the key word there is support. It doesn't make the decision. So the real benefit of these models, in my opinion, is for sensitivity analysis, because you can quantify and analyze the impact of doing certain things. We added, removed, changed constraints, such as forcing DC's to open or close. We haven't started playing with it yet, but we will. What if the capacity of these distribution centers change? Because maybe I want to expand an existing facility, instead of opening a new one. How do I test that? You can also do things like changing the input values. What happens if the cost changes? The distances might not change, but what if the price of fuel doubles or is cut in half? What impact will that have on my design? I could also modify level of service requirements. What if I change these? How will that impact my solution? And I can change the objective function. Right now, I only have outbound costs and facility costs. There are other things I could throw in there as well. And so changing these things allows you to see a more robust, and get a better idea of the trade-offs that you're making. So we have this somewhat complicated model. It's pretty complicated the first time through. But actually, it's very, very simple. Because this is a small list of things we are not considering. We didn't consider capacity on the arcs or nodes. We assumed that every DC could handle anything you threw at it. There's no issues with capacity on the transportation arcs. We ignored manufacturing locations. We ignored inbound transportation costs. There are no handling costs at the facilities. We assumed that all the transportation costs were variable per unit, and not fixed at all. We ignored all inventory costs. We considered one product. We all know that companies have multiple products, categories of products, or families. We ignored all that, and went to a single product. We looked at one time period. We know that what I do in February influences what I can do in March. So wouldn't it be nice to have a model that takes that into account? And we didn't dive deep, again, into the optimization models, the trade-offs it made, and the solution techniques. We're not going to cover that in this course. But some of these other things-- we'll start playing with these. We'll start saying, OK, what does this do? What does increasing capacity at a facility-- what does that do to my solution? And so we'll start playing with these more in the next set of lessons. So hopefully, you got a lot out of this lesson. Please if you have any questions, use the discussion forum for comments, any questions that you might have. And hopefully, you're better at optimizing your location than my two dogs, Dexter and Wilson, who are always hoping to optimize their location to be next to the food bowl, and rarely get to do that.
