CONNOR MAKOWSKI: Hi there. My name is Connor Makowski, and in this recitation, we'll be covering food on wheels part 4. And for this particular problem, we're going to be just adding one new constraint, and that new constraint is to ensure that at least 75% of our demand is served in less than seven minutes from the hubs to all the different city areas. And so we'll go ahead, and we'll take our problem part 3. And we're going to go ahead and create a copy of that. I'm going to save a copy in Drive. I'm going to go ahead and call that Food on Wheels P4. And I'll save that. Once I get this saved, I'm going to go ahead and run these initial scripts. These are going to be the exact same as part 3. And so you can see we have our transportation matrix, our kitchens, our hubs, and our demand. That should all be functional. We shouldn't have to change anything in our transportation matrix. We're still using those binary variables for our hubs. And finally, we'll add that m variable. What we will want to do is we're going to add some extra items here in our constraints. Our objective function isn't going to change. We're still minimizing. We are still going to be doing everything the same for demand. I don't think we'll change anything for demand. For each of our hubs, we shouldn't have to add this per hub. This should be a generalized variable. So we'll go ahead, and we'll add a hub constraint or a special constraint at the bottom that is specifically for this constraint. So I'm going to go ahead and copy maybe a different constraint, and then we'll make some changes from there. So let's go ahead and copy this demand constraint. We can make some modifications. So my_model.add_constraint, so in this case, this is our demand. But we'll go ahead, and we'll just name this 75% PCT demand under seven hours, so 75% of demand is under 7 hours-- sorry, under seven minutes, not hours, seven minutes. So if we can go ahead and do that, what do we want to codify this as? We need to say the amount that we're flowing for each item in our transport should be included in this only if our destination name equals one of our demand names, so this actually is correct. So this is actually going to be a d name. But this isn't going to be just any d name. This is going to be any of our demand names. We'll go ahead and tab this back one more. So I'm going to create a special variable for our demand name. So D-E-M-A-N-D-- demand names, and that's going to actually equal a list of items. So that's going to be d name for d and demand, D-M-A-N-D. I think that should be correct. So we'll go ahead, and we'll actually run this in a separate cell so you can see what this is going to look like. So I'm going to say demand names print. So we go ahead and print that. We should see what those look like. So essentially, we're going up to our demand for each item in there. We're just pulling out what the name is, so a1, so in this case, a1, a2 a3, a4, a5. So we'll go ahead, and we'll keep that down there for now. And so our demand names, that's going to be here. And we're going to add a constraint that the amount that we're flowing for each item in transport is only going to be included in this list if the destination name is actually going to be in demand names. So I'm only going to include this if that is true. Now, the other thing we want to keep in mind is that the time has to be less than seven. So it's not just seven minutes or less. It's clearly less than seven minutes so I'm going to add an extra item here and say, if the destination name is in demand names and t bracket time and the time is also less than 7. So not only does it have to be a destination name in our demand name-- so our destination is one of the five areas-- we also have to make sure that the time it takes to deliver to each one of those areas is less than 7. And so if we take the sum of all those, all of those together have to be greater than or equal to 75% of my total demand. So what is that total demand? That's actually going to be-- let me think. That's going to be the sum of each item, so model.sum of that same thing we did before, except for, instead of d name, we're going to do it for D-- oh, what do we call this demand. We call that demand, D demand. So the sum of all of that demand together times 0.75. So what is this actually saying? This side of the equation's saying all of our demand times 75, so 75% of our total demand, and this side is saying, we're only going to include the amounts of flows if our destination name is in those demand names-- it's one of those areas that we're delivering to-- and the time to that delivery is less than 7 minutes. So if the sum of all of those together is going to be less than the total amount of my demand, then I should be good. So what does that mean? 75% of the demand up here is served in less than seven minutes. That's great. That means we've achieved that outcome. Now, what might be a trick here-- it's not in this case, but it would say from hubs to all city areas. If, for example, we had a more complicated network, where you could deliver from hubs and maybe some other node type, you might also need to say, for t and transport, if t origin name in hubs and hub names, or something like that, so you would have to add another caveat here similar to-- oops, similar to this for the hub names to make sure it flows out of a hub and into a demand zone and maybe not out of something else. So you might have to get clever there. For this particular problem, there's no flows like that, so this isn't necessarily a trick for us. But just keep that in mind for some of those more complicated use cases you might run into in the future. So we'll go ahead, and we will run this. And once that's run, we're going to go ahead, and I can go ahead and delete this particular cell. Let's look at our formulation, and we'll make sure that 75% under seven minutes is correct. So what would we expect to see in there, perfect. h1 a5 amount. So we would expect from hub 1 to a5. If we scroll up to that value, we should go ahead and see that that's under seven minutes. So let's go ahead, and we'll go up to hub 1 to a5 all the way up to the top. Hub 1 to a5, so that's five minutes. So we can see from a hub to a demand area, there's one that's less than seven minutes. So anything that flows on that route altogether should be less than-- let's see if we can-- there we go. Should be less than seven minutes, and that's perfect. So if you look at each one of these above, you should see that all of these should be less than seven minutes, and they should all end at one of the demand areas. The total amount of those is actually going to be greater than or equal to 300, and that just means that our total demand is probably 400 total units of demand. And so 75% of that is 300. So everything flowing out of that has to be greater than 300, and that would then force this constraint to be correctly satisfied. So if we go down here, let's go ahead, and we'll show our outputs. And so you can see our total objective function is 4,085. And finally, we can do the same thing we did before, where we're going to show for each of the hubs what the total outflows are. All right, so let's go over here to our question on the right-hand side. Which of the following components should be included in your adjusted model? So we are currently using binary variables for the uses. The objective function we're using, we have a demand constraint . We have a linking constraint. We also have a conservation of flow, a capacity constraint, non-negativity for all those continuous variables. And finally, we now have that level of service constraint that we just added for 75% less than seven minutes. So it looks like we're good there. Let's see which hub we are going to be using, hub 5. So we're still using hub 5 for our hub there. And finally, how many boxes are we going to deliver from this rented hub? We will be delivering 101 boxes from this rented hub, 101. And that looks right as well. And finally, what's the maximum total delivery time? That's going to be 4,085, so 4085. We'll submit that. And it looks like we're good to go. With all of that said, I'm very grateful for your time. Thank you very much.
