LAURA ALLEGUE:Congratulations, welcome back. This is the last part of this recitation of optimization using spreadsheet in which we are solving optimization based procurement. To finish this recitation with the same process we started it, please pause this video. Read through the echo pants part for problem statement. We've got four questions in this part of the problem. This is ungraded content, so don't worry, this is a safe place to make mistakes. Go for it and meet me back in a few minutes to walk through it together. I invite you to stand in the shoes of a procurement manager here. And if you haven't been in the shoes of a procurement manager or analyst or anywhere near that field of expertise, I invite you to think on any time you have purchased something from your house. Is it safe to think that the cheaper something is the best option it is? Usually that's not the case and we can analyze something being the best option in many different ways. We can talk about service level as a percentage, as we usually do in companies. We can define the best by being being delivered on time. Some people would actually consider the best to be delivered ahead of time instead. For some other people or companies, best could mean lower carbon emissions. So this is my invite for you to discuss in the forum and talk about the different ways you can use optimization to improve your procurement processes at home or at work and how would you define the best option or how would you define the level of service that would be the better fit for your procurement process?For this part of the problem. Level of service is defined with a percentage that needs to be achieved and each one of the suppliers has a different level of service to source each type of fabric. Sometimes we are provided with an overall level of service per supplier. In this case the complexity is a little bit higher because we have a matrix that includes each fabric having a different service level from each supplier. Critical information here includes not only that, but the fact that 1% increment in service level is equal to $5 per meter of fabrics. And that the company considers 95% the expectation in terms of level of service from each one of the suppliers and fabrics. Please consider the example you have been provided and any possible details that you find in the problem statements. To make this decision, this company clearly wants to consider the service level both ways. So if you are providing a lower service level to 95, we're considering your cost is a little bit higher. At the same time, if your service level is higher than what we expect, we consider yourself a little bit cheaper than you actually are. How do you translate this into an actual decision in within the company? Well, they expect 95% and that's great. But if you give them more than 95%, then you're adding value to the company. So they are willing to pay more for a supplier being above the 95% service level. Is this always the case? No. As we talked before, sometimes company just want the expected service level and they're not willing to pay more for an additional 2%. But some companies are. So read carefully through the problems they've meant and be sure you're calculating the right level of service adjusted costs, OK? Let's go answer questions one together. So the question here is how would you adjust your model in part three to include this new level of service policy?There's only one correct answer here, so let's analyze it adding a new binary variable to my model to enforce the level of service. That doesn't really make sense because we want to adjust our cost based on the percentage above or below the level of service, so that's not our correct answer. Modifying the objective function to consider the level of service adjusted prices instead of the original 1. This seems to make sense, and if it doesn't, I invite you to go back to the lecture where you can see all the details on why and how this is working. So I'm inclined to select this one. Adjusting the capacity to reflect the level of service impact on fabrics availability. That's actually not coming from any piece of information we have, so that's definitely not right. And then modifying the linking constraint to include an adjusted M value. There is no relation within the level of service constraint and the linking constraint. So this is definitely not the right answer. So I'm back to my second one, which I think is the right one based on the lectures I will just submit. And we are right. Next question is what is the minimum level of service adjusted cost for equipment?And before we go to solve it, I want to read through question three in here. We're asked about what is the minimum total procurement cost for echo pounds under this scenario. So we got two cost related questions. One of them is asking about the level of service adjusted cost, the other one is asking about the actual total procurement cost. So why are we making this difference and why are we prompting you to read carefully both problem statements? Using the level of service adjusted cost for optimization model means given a value to the service level whenever we're optimizing for costs. However, is this a player actually changing their prices? Are we actually paying less for a higher service level? But that's not actually happening, right?The cost will be the same because the proposals are still the same. They still have the same price per meter of fabric. So that's not changing. So keep that in mind. We are using a model, we are giving a monetary value to a decision, but there is no way that that guideline and that internal policy can affect my suppliers proposal. OK, with that in mind and now understanding what's the level of service adjusted costs and the total procurement cost. Let's go back to our spreadsheet and start working on that. This is the last time in this problem we were duplicating our tab, so let's do it together. Just creating art for here. To work with the new information we need to bring it to our spreadsheet, so that's our first step. So I'll make it at the end of my spreadsheet and I'll just copy paste everything we have here. The end table we also need to bring some other details, which means that. 1% of. Service level is equal to. $5 per meter, right? We also need to know that we are normalized. Using 95%. Having all information in our spreadsheets, let's move on to adjusting what we need to answer this new question. I personally prefer to work with the integer numbers as we know that one would represent $5 in terms of the percentage of service level. So I will remove the percentage sign here just to make it simple for my spreadsheet formulas to calculate it, but feel free to use decimal places if that's your preference. Just be sure to translate properly your decimal places into the 1% representing the $5 per year. OK, so this is what I'm going to change into. And then it's time for us to calculate our new level of service adjusted cost. As you know, I like to use my original formatting and tables, so I'm going to bring this down. That's where my original prices were, and these are the prices I need to adjust to comply with my new policy. Of course this is going to be empty because we need to calculate all of them brand new. And let's build this formula together. So in order to impact the original price by the service level policy, we need to. Consider the difference between the normalized. Percentage, right, which we're going to fix here. Minus fabric, one supplier, one service level because that's where we're standing. Times the dollars per meter. OK, I'm going to fix that cell too so I can drag my formula afterwards. Let's click enter. As we see here, there's no changes. Considering these suppliers just fulfilling expectations on the 95% level of service. But if we drag and drop, let's analyze what happens with the other suppliers. And for all types of fabric. Let's analyze supplier 2 for Rick one. The supplier is 2% above the expected service level, right? Because it was 95. So this means we should consider it cheaper in $10.00. Of course these are dollars per meter, so let's go to supplier 2 and we can see that the original price was 154. Butas I am assigning the value to their higher service level, I'm considering them cheaper for my analysis. You can also take a look at some suppliers that have a lower service level, like supplier 3 for Fabric Two and you can see here it's 195. Being 5% below the expected service level means that we need to consider it an actual over cost of $25. If we go back and see Supplier 3 Fabric two, we see that their actual cost is $170. But we are considering it more expensive and that is just because their service level is really low compared to others. Or actually compared to our expectations? Let's now fix the color coding. Because these are calculated fields, I need to adjust this. OK, just for us now. And these are provided data points so make them great. But why did we calculate this new purchasing cost per meter of fabric per supplier? We talked before about incorporating the service level into the cost so that we could minimize our total procurement costs, but now considering service level, so we need to have our adjusted objective function. I'm going to adhere my level of service adjusted cost. OK. We need to calculate this by using some product just like we did before. Of the adjusted costs we have now and the fabric that's being sourced by each one of the suppliers and remember that we still have all the information from the previous parts of this problem, so we also need to include. The purchasing set up cost for placing an order. Without, our objective function is all set, and the only change between the original one and this new one is the prices we're considering to calculate our total procurement cost. I'll click enter. And let's have fun again with our solver settings. So let's go to Data and Solver. As you can see here, our objective function was color-coded previously being the procurement cost. We need to adjust the color coding. Don't let me forget and I'm going to select the new objective which is the level of service adjusted cost. Variables are not changing as you just saw. There's nothing else actually changing because what did change is the objective function, which is including a different kind of cost, but everything else will stay in the same, so I'm just going to solve. I'll close my solver results. I invite you to analyze what happened. Going back to the beginning of this part of the recitation, we talked about the fact that having a different adjusted cost doesn't mean that we're paying less for a product. As you can see here, the procurement cost is still higher than in the past. So if you go and check back with part three or before, you will see that our procurement cost is actually higher and this means that in the trade off between the level of service and the cost that extra level of service represents. We're actually deciding to pay more. Is this always the case?Well, it really happens a lot. I've seen this happening several times in the industry and this is because a lower service level sometimes represent hidden costs. Think of the fabric not arriving on time. This definitely affect the manufacturing processes. You may have machinery set up cost. You may have fixed costs for your raw material or inventory warehouse that is now probably half full because you couldn't proceed with the expected manufacturing processes. It also means that you couldn't serve your demand on time or probably that you didn't have that safety stock you expected to have to serve the demand if some disruption happened. So a lower service level could represent huge costs for a company if things don't go as you expect. If we go back to part three, you can still see that we're using layer one and four just like in the previous part of this problem. However, we are now sourcing more units of Fabric 3 from supplier 1. Compared to the past and supply of four, you can see here 161 versus 245 on Fabric 3 for example. And this is highly likely because the service level here in Supplier e has a 99% one is much higher than in Supplier 4. So let's go down and see Fabric 3, Supplier on service level . So this is not only fulfilling the expectations, but even higher in 4%, almost perfect. At the same time, you can see supplier for is not even fulfilling the expectation of 95%. So being the cheapest option in the past, this is actually not the best option to go with and that's why supplier one has now. Received a higher number of units on Fabric 3. Of course, there are a lot of other limitations considering capacity and setup costs and all other elements here in our model. So that's why supplier one is not sourcing all possible Fabric 3 units that we demand. But it's important that you go through your numbers, go through your results, analyze the insights and think on what would happen if it was at home or at the office and would have I done a different choice with a different service level lead time or carbon emission factor. As I adjust my color coding, I invite you to populate your answers. In the platform and let me know how it goes. By now you are more than ready to answer all the missing questions in Part 4. Go for it, get the correct answer with us. And if you still have any questions, doubts, concerns, or are still struggling with this topic, please revisit this recitation as many times as you need it. Go to the discussion forums, our CTA's are there to help you and reach out to us to the course emails if you need additional support. Thank you for watching the presentation and good luck. See you in the next one.
