CONNOR MAKOWSKI: Hi there. Welcome to the Blink problem part three. My name is Connor Makowski. And in this recitation, we are actually going to be disregarding what we did in part two and we're going to be jumping back to part one, and we're going to start working from the end of part one. And so the reason we're doing that is because we are-- as part of our problem statement, we can see that we are agreeing to disregard our profit maximization approach and we're just going to switch back to a pure cost minimization approach. So I'm going to go ahead and create a copy of that initial part one, and I'm actually going to call this one P3. And so now I have a new notebook. I'm going to be-- this is a clone of that initial notebook, and we are going to be considering this problem. And so the idea in part three is we have a disruption in our supply chain, and for some reason we don't have enough capacity at our plants, or at least we have some restrictions on capacity due to some part shortages. And so assembly plant one can only produce 13,000 units of our Blinky22 product, and assembly plant two can only produce 3,500 units. And so we need to adjust our model and we want to consider this new information, and then we're still going to try to minimize that total transportation cost. So let's go ahead and start thinking about what we need to do to edit that. So to get started, we're going to go back over here to our left-hand side. I'm going to run the standard install of the scx package. I'm going to run the optimization or importing of the optimization model. And finally, I'm going to start thinking about what I need to do to incorporate this new information. So we can see here, we need to actually add some information specific to our assembly plants. So we probably wouldn't put that in our transportation matrix. That wouldn't make sense because it's not unique to each item in this transportation matrix, it's unique to each assembly plant. So we'll scroll down and think a little bit more. But we also probably wouldn't put it in our demand matrix because it has nothing to do with demand, it only has to do with our assembly. So it seems like we're going to need to create a new matrix. So let's go ahead and we'll create a new matrix, and we are going to call that assembly, A-S-S-E-M-B-L-Y, assembly. And our assembly matrix is actually going to be a list of dictionaries, just like we normally do for our data structures. And that is going to be-- let's see if we can't think about what that's going to be. So we need to create the name, and we can do it just like we do the demand. So if it's demand, we're going to say name is R1, and that's going to match exactly our names that are specified in our transportation matrix. So for our assembly, we're going to say name. And that's going to be a colon, because we're in a dictionary. Name is going to be A1. So our name is A1. We're going to have a comma because we're in a dictionary again, and we're going to do another key. And that key is probably going to be something to do with the limitations that we have over the capacity. So in this case, let's just call that limit, L-I-M-I-T, and our limit is going to be for A1. We can see that limit is 13,000 units. So we're going to say 13,000. So we now have the item for A1. Let's go ahead and do the same thing for A2. I'm going to copy that and I'm going to paste it. I'm just going to change my name to be A2. And my limit for A2 is going to be 3,500 units. So our assembly plant two has a limit of 3,500 units. So it looks like I've incorporated all of the primary data that I need to import for my model. So I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to run this cell here that has all of my matrices. Now going down, I don't really think I need to adjust my transportation. Really what I need to do is add a new constraint. So I'm going to go ahead and run my transportation matrix where I'm generating that amount and that cost, just like we did in part one. And finally, I will get to our modeling part. So I'm going to call this-- my model is actually going to be Blinky22P3. I'm still minimizing, so that looks good. I'm going to go to my objective function. I'm minimizing the amount times the cost for each item. That still looks good. My standard demand constraint still looks good. I'm actually going to exceed, or equal all of my demand. So what do I need to do? I actually need to add a new constraint. And I'm going to call this my supply constraint, or maybe I'll call it my assembly constraint. Let's go ahead and call it supply, S-U-P-P-L-Y, so my supply constraint. And what do we want to do? Let's just think about it in terms of one of our supply items first, and then we'll add a for loop around it. So I'm going to say I want to add a constraint. So my_model.add_constraint. And when we add constraints, the first thing we need to do is provide a name and a function. So go ahead and say, my name is going to be equals f is an f string. And that is going to be, let's go ahead and say s name. So I'm going to say for s in supply, or for s in-- or for a in assembly, maybe. And that's going to be a name. Remember, so we named that name my assembly name. And I'm going to probably say underscore underscore A-S-S-E-M-B-L-Y_S-U-P-P-L-Y, so my assembly_supply. So I'll close out that f string. I'm going to go to the next item I need to input and that's going to be my function, fn. And that is going to equal-- so it looks like Google Colab adds some helpful things. So if you are struggling here, it should provide some help from time to time. Sometimes that can get in your way. And so we can see here's the documentation that we have. And so you can see the function. So this method, add_constraint, has those things. It has some different helpful hints in there to help you fill out what's going on. So I'm going to actually say that's going to be a model. I'm going to say that's going to be the sum that's going to be less than or equal to a bracket limit. So I just need to fill out what's going to go in this sum. So let's start thinking about what this would look like. So let's go and we'll copy our demand constraint. We can start thinking about what we would do here inside of our assembly constraint, or our supply constraint. So we need the amount of each item in transport, so that seems right, if the destination name equals demand name. Actually, this isn't going to be the destination, this is going to be the origin name, because this is if it's coming from our supply. So we're going to say if t o-r-i-g-i-n if the t of our origin name equals, and we're going to change this from d, because that's demand, remember, to a for assembly if our origin name equals our assembly name. So that actually looks pretty good to me. So we actually have this list. We're saying if the item origin name equals the assembly name, then we're going to say we want to include the amount of that, the sum of all of those amounts have to be less than the a, so the assembly limit. Let's go ahead and I'm going to tab this out. And inside of that, I'm actually going to add a for loop. So just like I did with my demand. So I want to say for a in-- for a in assembly. Is that what I called that up here? Let's go ahead and-- yeah. So for a in assembly, I'm going to add that constraint. And that constraint is going to be named the assembly name underscore underscore assembly_supply. So that looks pretty good to me. So I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to run this. I'm going to see if everything checks out. Oh, it looks like I have a syntax error. So in this case, it looks like my f string has some issues. You can see it's pointing to right here, the assembly name. And I can look up and I can see what's going on right here. It looks like I'm using single quotes with single quotes in my f string. So I'm going to go ahead and just change those to double quotes. This is a little debugging here. So I'm changing those from single quotes to double quotes, so inside of it I can actually use single quotes. And you can see again that's what we're doing up here as well. That was just a typo on my part. I'm going to go ahead, I'm going to run that again and see if everything checks out. And it looks like we don't have any errors. We have a green check there. So let's go ahead and let's see what our formulation looks like. Let's see if that makes sense to us. So we have our standard minimization that should be exactly what we saw before. We're subject that to our demand, and those should be the exact same demand constraints we had before. But we're adding some new constraints. Remember this is the f string, the assembly name, and then the supply. So our A1 assembly supply, and that constraint just says anything that comes out of assembly plant one, so these three are all the A1 to one of the regions. And the sum of all of those has to be less than our constraint of 13,000. You can see that we do the same thing for assembly plant two. And so those all look good. It looks like we've put this in a way that the models understood well, and it's formulated properly. So we can go ahead and let's check out our outputs and see if we've done this correctly. Let's go ahead and we'll see our outputs. So we've got $148,746.72 in costs. Let's go ahead and let's copy this over, and plug it into our x input box. And when I go ahead, I can look at this and I can say I'm going to submit that, and let's see if we're good. It looks like we've done it right. All right, so this one was a little bit complex. Remember, we went ahead and we added some data in our matrices. We added an assembly matrix, or an assembly list of dictionaries, and then we just added some supply constraints to make sure that those limits were met, appropriated to each assembly plant. So everything that left that assembly plant had that limit appropriated to it. So that is part three. I do thank you very much for your time.
