Now let's talk about the fixed planning horizon problem. What we're trying to do is simply determine how much and when to produce or order different items. So if I look at the assumptions that I have for the inventory problem-- this is similar to other inventory models that we looked at from economic order quantity to news vendor problems-- there's certain assumptions. And what are the assumptions that are different here for the fixed planning horizon problem? Well, there are three that make it different from the traditional economic order quantity problem. The first is demand is variable. It's no longer constant. Remember in EOQ, or Economic Order Quantity, I assume that over time, if this is time, that the demand was fairly stable. Now I'm going to assume that it changes over time. So every time period, I might have a different demand. However, it's known. It's not random. So it's not like the news vendor or some of the other inventory policies we looked at. I know these and this is what I'm planning to. This is in my demand forecast. So I know for each time period how much I'm supposed to produce. Now, what else makes it different is it's a finite time period. Remember for EOQ, I'm looking for a steady state inventory policy because I assume that that condition is going to go on forever. Here, I'm planning exactly for the demand that's been forecasted for me. So at the end of this time period, I should have no inventory left, or if I have inventory left over, it's being planned for future demand. So I have a fixed or finite time period. That's why it's called the fixed planning horizon. So how are we going to talk about this? We're going to use a very simple example called the Queenstown Gyroscopes example. So your company, Queenstown Gyroscopes, just received a one-year contract with the Australian Satellite Systems Company to provide 2,000 of your special Kiwi-99 gyroscopes. And that's what this is. This is your Kiwi-99. So you have to provide 2,000 of them. And they want them at a certain time because typically, if I'm going into a system, I'm providing my product to another manufacturer, then they're not going to want them all at once. They want them spread out to match their production schedule. So in this case, month one, they want 200. And you can see this in both the chart and the table. Month two, they want 150. Month three, they want 100, and so on. So I have this schedule that I have to meet. And the question we're trying to figure out is, how much should I make? How should I make in time period one, two, three, four, whatever? So I need to have some other costs. There's a set-up cost. Any time I make any number, it's going to cost me $500 per run. Think of this as a transactional cost, an order set-up cost. Then I need to know the cost per gyroscope, and that's $50 per item. Now I might sell them to the Australians at a very different price, but this is the cost to make. We need that to determine the holding cost. So my holding charge, I'm assuming 24% per year. And so I picked that number so the math gets easy because if I look at what this means, I have 0.24 dollar per dollar per year. I'm going to multiply that by the cost of gyroscope, which is $50 per item. And I'm going to divide that by 12. I assume there are 12 months in a year. And so what happens? Years cancel out. Dollars cancel out. So what am I ending up with? I'm ending up with $1.00 per item per month. So it just makes it easy. So every extra gyroscope I have that is not going up to meet demand, I pay $1 per each month that I hold it. Now, I need some other information. Let me clean that up. And this mainly is the policy for inventory. I assume that if you manufacture something in a period, it's ready for use in that period. So if you say I'm going to make 50 in time period three, those can be used to satisfy demand in period three. We also assume that gyroscopes produced in a period, if they're consumed in that same period, that same month, then they don't have any holding costs. But let's say in period four, I produce 100 and 20 of them are satisfying demand, I pay interest or holding cost on the 80 that I carry over to the next month. And we'll go over this in more detail. So my objective is find the lowest cost production plan for these gyroscopes for the 12 month contract. And we're going to solve this a bunch of different ways. Three main categories-- we're going to look at some simple heuristics, then we're going to look at some specialized heuristics. I'm going to focus in on this Silver-Meal algorithm, which is very popular. And then we'll look at two optimal methods. So we're going to solve the same problem about six different ways.
