LAURA ALLEGUE LARA: Hi, everyone, and welcome. I'm Laura Allegue, and I'm going to drive you through the blink problem in this recitation of optimization using spreadsheets. If you are still not very familiar with using spreadsheets, I encourage you to use the toolbox in week 0 to get familiar with it first. You'll notice I'm going to use Excel in a Windows settings. However, this recitation is helpful for you if you're using spreadsheets in almost any kind of software. If you find any difference between what I'm showing you and what you have in your own computer, please use the discussion forum to share it with your CTAs and get additional support. Just in case you're pursuing a MicroMasters program and are looking forward to taking the CFX anytime soon, I encourage you to try learning how to use Excel or LibreOffice if you haven't yet, because those are the only two software that are allowed during the CFX in order to solve these kind of problems. Last but not least, if you haven't yet, please pause this video and read through the blink problem part one, because we're going to assume you already know the basics. I'm not going to drive you through the entire statement, but only on the data points that we need to solve the problem. Great. So now that we're all set and ready to go, let's analyze first what's the information we're being provided. The first thing we are told here in this model is that we only have two nodes here. One are the assembly plants and the other ones are the regions. This is very important because we're not going to use, at this point, any kind of distribution center or transshipment point. We're given a transportation cost per unit per mile. We're also provided a demanding unit, so each region is going to demand a certain amount of units we need to supply. And we're also provided with distance in miles per assembly plant to each one of the regions. This is very important, because as we have been told, the transportation cost is in the units of dollar per unit per mile. If we want to build our transportation cost equation, what we are going to analyze is all three elements. We have a value in dollars. We also have a number of units flowing from each assembly plant to each region, and these units are going to flow through a certain distance, which will depend in terms of which assembly plant is delivering those units to each one of the regions. Keeping all those elements in mind, let's now go and solve question one. You will notice that question one in most of the parts of this problem is going to ask you about formulating the model. This is because we want you to think, as we just did, on all the elements we have, and what is it that each element represent in our model formulation. Thinking on what we've been provided, we only have first an objective function, because we need to know what is our goal and what is it that we're minimizing and optimizing here, which is transportation cost. So I'm going to select that option. We're also provided with the demand from each region, so this is also a constraint we're going to have to incorporate to our model. And we know that the non-negativity constraint is important to have mostly because we're using all positive numbers here in terms of the value of the variables. So I'm keeping the non-negativity constrained and analyzing all other elements. We haven't been provided with, for example, a supply constraint because we haven't been provided with a capacity from each assembly plant. We've just been told that any units come flow from the plant to the regions as needed. Also as we talked, we don't have an intermediate node, so there is no need of a conservation of flow constraint. And as we're not defining a location for a facility, or whether we want to open or close a facility, or selecting one, or either considering fixed costs, we're not going to use linking and binary variables. So having this, let's submit. We got it right, which is great. I invite you to click the Show answer button to see the full model formulation and analyze each one of the steps carefully. And hopefully, that will help you translate what we just did into our spreadsheet next. Once we've formulated our model, we now go to question two that is asking what is our minimum transportation cost. So if you can pause this video, give it a try. Try to incorporate all elements into your spreadsheets. Try to just build your model. Start creating all the tables that you need. Think on which is your objective function, what are the variables you're using. If you have a constraint, how is it that you are going to build your left-hand side or your right-hand side of the inequality. And find us here in a few minutes so that we do it together. Perfect. I hope that went well. If you still are struggling on how to build it, don't worry. This is why we are here for. So let's go up and read the problem statement in terms of what are the data points I'm going to bring with me to the spreadsheets. I'm starting with a blank spreadsheet so that we do it from scratch together. And the first thing I'm taking with me is the transportation cost per unit per mile. Throughout this recitation, I want to share best practices, and things that work well for us, and that are going to save some time for you whenever you're working on your exams or graded assignments. So the first one would be, be very careful when you copy paste information from the problem statement to the spreadsheet or whenever you are typing anything. It's very frequent that we make mistakes in terms of the regional settings of our software or our computer. Some regional settings will require a comma here instead of a dot if you're talking about decimal places. Some others will just consider it as a dot right as we have it in the problem statement. So if you just copy/paste, but your regional setting is not aligned with what you brought to the spreadsheet, you'll probably see an error message whenever you're trying to calculate with that number, or you're going to get a wrong result. So it's very important that we start from the very basic part of bringing the right number to my spreadsheet. So using 0.12, and I'm ready to go with the next one. Next, I'm bringing my demand in units. We're going to use that for my demand constraint. So I will just copy paste this into my spreadsheet. And I'm going to make it bigger so it's clearer for everyone. And then the next piece of information I have is the distance in miles, so I'm also bringing this with me. And we're all set to start populating our spreadsheet with the additional calculations we need and the additional elements we're missing to start working on our solver. Let's think on our objective function. In order to calculate the transportation cost, we mentioned we needed units flowing through a certain number of miles and a cost in dollars. What we're missing here are the units flowing, and this is where we're going to set our variables. So I'm going to replicate this table just to keep the format and make it easier when I'm doing the sumproduct process. This is not mile. This is now units flowing. And of course, name it as it works best for you, because this is supposed to be clear for you and easy to debug if you find any issues in the future. There's going to be an empty table because this is where I'm going to let the model populate the possible number of units flowing until it finds the optimized minimum transportation cost. And the last thing, but not least, that we need is the actual transportation cost calculation. So let's do total transportation cost here. This is going to be in dollars. And we just do some product. And the first array is going to be the miles that the units have to travel through. And then the second array I'm going to select is going to be the variables. So that means the units that could flow from each plant to the regions so that it calculates the actual cost. And then once I do have the first two elements, which are the miles and the units, I'm going to multiply this by the transportation cost per unit per mile. Having all elements together, I'm ready to click Enter, and I'm all set. Once again, let's think ahead and consider every element we may need. In order to build a demand constraint, we're going to have a left-hand side and a right-hand side element. If you go to the model formulation, you will see that the summation of units flowing to each one of the region should be at least the amount of units that we are demanded. So we're still not calculating here how many units is region 1, 2, and 3 actually receiving to compare that with the demand. So let's calculate that field. To do that, I'm just going to sum all units flowing from plant region. I'm going to copy/paste the formula here. So I'm summing each one of the regions. So flowing to each region. And then I have my total number is flowing. Great. So I would say we already have every element we need before we jump to the solver parameters, but here is what I want to give you some tips as we talked. The most important thing for us to begin with is color coding. Color coding your template will help you at many steps of the process. At the very beginning, just to see that have every element you need. Then to set the solver parameters, because you're going to easily identify, if it's a variable, where to find it and where to locate it in my solver settings. And at the very end of the process, if you get an error message at any point, you'll be able to analyze every element by itself, and understand how it works, and if it got an error or not. So color coding-- trust me-- is going to make it so much easier for you along the go. And once you get used to it, you automatically kind of implement it. So let's do it together. First, I'm going to color code my objective function. So I'm going to do this probably a light green. This will be my objective function. And this is the color. I'm going to use for D2, which is where I located my formula. The second one is going to be the variables. In most of our spreadsheets, you'll notice that we usually color code variables as yellow so not to lose them from our sight. And our variables are going to be coming here as we talk, because they are the units flowing from plants to region. So this is going to be yellow for me. Next, I'm going to color code everything that has been provided by the team in the problem statement. This is for us to double-check whenever we have to debug our model as we said, if we made any mistake when populating our spreadsheet, or if anything changed from one part of the problem to the other and we probably missed changing that as well. So let's do this as provided data. And probably, we can start by color coding this-- also the miles and the transportation cost per unit per mile. The fourth element I'm going to color code here are the calculated fields. And this is again because we want to be sure that everything that we calculated is considering every cell it should be considering. And if we add a new facility, a new region, a new plant, a new constraint, we're actually adding that to our calculations. So I'm going to do this as calculated field. And I really like to make this one light blue. And then now, I'm very happy with our spreadsheet, and I feel like we're good to go to set our solver. Let's do it together. As of now, you probably already set your solver because you've been following along with the lesson with Dr. Caplice. But if you haven't yet, please go to Data and find it in the analyze section. If you're still missing to incorporate that addon to your software, please go to the toolbox in week 0 where you're going to find a tab that has all the information on how to set your solver. Again, if you're using a different kind of software and our guidelines are not helpful for you because of different setup, please share your thoughts or questions in the discussion forum, and we will guide you through it. So now, I'll click solver, and this is what I see. The first element is to set the objective. So which is the equation we want it to minimize maximize or any goal we are providing it. So my objective function is, as we said, in this light green. So that makes it easier to identify it. Then we have three options, whether maximizing, minimizing, or a specific value. So maximizing is usually used with goals like profit or revenue. If we want to maximize profit or revenue, definitely this is what we're going to use. We also have the possibility of using the value of. This is when we want the goal to be a specific number. So if we want a goal being $1,000, then definitely this is the value we have to click. We will just type in the value of $1,000. Right now, as you know, we want to minimize total transportation costs. So I'm just clicking min here, and we're all set to continue going. The variable cells, as we said, are identified in yellow. So that's just picking our array here. And it's populated already. And then it's time to add our constraints. I'll just click Add. And this is what we talk about the left-hand side and the right-hand side of our constraint. So everything that we built on question one is now coming to reality, let's say, when we are populating our solver parameters. As we talked, here we're going to have the flow to each region. And we have to at least send the number of units they requested, so I'm going to use larger or equal than the demand. Let's think a little bit about larger, or equal, or any inequality we're using here. First thing is, if we truly want you to use a specific inequality or we want you to select equal to something, we're going to be very specific on the problem statement. So first thing is, read carefully. I think it's also a great practice to analyze what would happen if we use different inequalities. For example, if we're talking about here on minimizing costs, and we're using larger or equal, is there any chance that the model will force the units flowing to be above the demand, or is it highly likely that it will just send as many units as a requested and nothing else? Actually, if you think about it, the more units flowing in this kind of model, the higher the cost because we only have costs. It's not we're analyzing revenue or profit. So as we are talking about increasing number of units flowing, increasing number of costs, then of course, our model is only going to send as many units as we suggest and nothing else. If instead of using larger or equal, we use lower than this number, the model will not send any number of units. Why is that? Because you're telling the model to reduce your transportation cost to the minimum. So if you're not sending any units, it's a possibility that it will select not sending any units. So we need to force our model to at least send the number of units we are requested. And as we can see, we're only going to send as many units as we need. So we'll just click OK. And then let's think about the non-negativity constraint we talked about. This is just about selecting that the number of units flowing here are going to be larger or equal to 0, which means it will never be a negative number. Once we click OK, we are going to check the rest of the default settings. Make unconstrained variable non-negative. It's a healthy one to have active by default unless you need it otherwise. And then we're solving using linear programming, so this is what we're clicking here. And now we're ready to go to solve our model. I'll click Solve. I will keep the solution found by the solver. And now, we have our answer for question two. I invite you to double-check that question two is asking us to provide two decimal places. And that's a very important thing to consider, because we always tell you how to input your answer. This is very important because you don't want to miss any points in graded assignments or exams just because you're not entering your answer correctly. In order for it to be graded as it's needed, you need to input the answer considering the prompt. So please double-check if we're requesting about nearest integer, rounding up, rounding down, or if we want you to round to a certain number of decimal places. In this case, we're asking for two decimal places. So I invite you to populate this number you got, and let me know how it goes. If you have any questions, or you didn't get it right at the first attempt, I invite you to go back, try to debug your model using the different elements we talked about, and then give it another try. Or use the discussion forum to get additional support from our CTAs. Thank you, and hope to see you in part two.
