OK so we've discussed network flow models and we've shown how to formulate them and solve them. In all those models though, we assumed that every facility that was there was used. Now we're going to restrict that problem a little bit and focus in on the decision of which facilities to use, which facilities to open. So this whole lesson is about facility location models. So we're going to start very simple in this first segment-- in this lesson-- and we're going to start talking about continuous single facility problems. By continuous, what I mean is you're on a Euclidean Space and I can place a facility anywhere within that space. So I just want to find the optimal space and it's a single facility, which means I'm only looking for one location and we're going to talk are two different ways to do this. One is known as the Weber problem and that's finding the minimum weighted distance from each of the points that I have and the other is known as center of gravity, which comes from physics. And we'll explain these and we'll talk about the strengths and weaknesses of each of them. Then we're going to go and look at a slightly different approach. Instead of having a continuous set of options to pick from, where you can have any kind of location, you're going to have a set of candidate locations and sometimes this is called a network facility location problem. And we're going to solve this using our old friend the mixed integer linear program which we started talking about in previous lessons, and we're going to show how to formulate it and we're going to show how to solve it in spreadsheets. And then we're going to expand it to multiple locations because we want to talk about the trade-offs-- because there are a lot of trade-offs involved with having a single facility, two facilities, three-- and you're going to have trade offs between the costs-- different types of costs-- as well as level of service and we'll express those and show those, formulate the problems and solve them. And then finally we'll wrap it up, talking about sensitivity analysis using these models because as we've tried to get across, the benefit of these models is not necessarily just to come up with an answer, you know, the answer's six, the real benefit is that it allows you to explore the options in the robustness of a solution. You can explore other potential solutions so it really gives you an idea of understanding the problem better-- that's the real benefit of using these models. All right so let's get started.
