So far in this lesson we've considered two figures of merit for evaluating investments-- the payback period and return on assets. We also discussed how they don't incorporate the timing of the cash flows, and that the time value of money is an important factor when evaluating investments for the investors of our firm. This segment talks about a figure of merit that does incorporate the time value of money, and that's net present value. So looking at the magnitude and the timing of cash flows, this is the example from the previous lesson, where we talked about how taking cash flows that happen over time at various points in time, such as the blue cash flows, and consolidating them into consistent periods. Adding up all the cash flows in a period and considering them at the end of the period is helpful. And we'll see in a minute why that's helpful in terms of our calculations. We also discussed in the previous segment how receiving cash earlier is better because we can reinvest it and then generate more value. So when looking at these two sets of cash flows, we may wonder which one creates more value. Is it better to get money earlier or later? Well, it's better to get money earlier, so the timing is better on the one on the left here. But the arrows don't tell you exactly how much there worth. So if I told you how much each cash flow is, we could then add these up and see that this total here is 275, and the total on the right here is 300. So the magnitude of the future cash flows is actually better on the right than on the left. So we can't obviously, by just looking at the cash flows, determine which creates more value. We actually need to do a calculation and determine the present value of those future cash flows in order to make this assessment. And we have the formula from the previous segment of how to take future cash flows and discount them using a discount rate to the present value. So we need to do that for all these cash flows and look at the combined total, or the sum of the present values of those future cash flows, in order to make our assessment, and that's what this formula shows. It takes the cash flow in Period 1, which is represented by c_1, and the cash flow in Period 2, represented by c_2, and it discounts by an appropriate amount. We have cash flow in Period 3, which would be c_3, and we'd, again, discount that by 1 + r. It's the third period, so we would have to cube that. And then we have a fourth period, so our t, the length of our horizon is four periods, so that's our c_4. We also have to make the exponent four periods in the future as well. And then we could, with this formula, calculate the combined present value of all these cash flows. Note that we also have to consider not only the future cash flows but also the initial investment, which is a negative number here, in making our decision. So looking at the future cash flows and netting out the initial investment, we get the formula for that present value. So this is again the future cash flows that we just calculated, the discounted to the present value of the future. We're doing the present value of those future cash flows. And then we have our initial investment. And we can use this to make a decision. Which one creates more value? And note that in this formula we are not discounting the period zero cash flow, because it is the present value. This happens right away. It's an initial investment. So it's in the present already. We don't need to discount it. Now in order to calculate this using Excel in the previous segment, we actually typed a formula in for discounting a future value to the present. We did the cash flow divided by 1 plus the rate, and we put the exponent in. If we did that for all of the terms, especially if we had a lot of cash flows, that might be a bit tedious. Fortunately, the spreadsheets that we are using here, the Excel and LibreOffice, have a function called NPV, which is applied in the same way in both situations for both Excel and LibreOffice, and that is the function value is NPV. The initial term is the discount rate that you're going to use. And then you just type in the future cash flows. So using the nomenclature above, we have our rate r is the first value in the spreadsheet function, and then the c_1 is our first cash flow. Now, you may wonder why is c_1 the first cash flow? Well, this is because of the way that the function works, it assumes that the cash flow happens at the end of the period. So the first cash flow happens at the end of period 1 would be c_1. We do want to incorporate our initial investment, c_0, so we'll have to add the cash flow for period 0 outside of the NPV function. So, for example, if we had a discount rate of 10%, and our future values, the four future values, are in cells A2, A3, A4, and A5, that would be the net present value of those future ones. We would then add in our initial one, which maybe in cell A1, to do our calculation. Let's illustrate this with an example, and let's use the cash flows we showed at the beginning of the segment to answer our question. So if we were to take the first one up top, we could use the function directly and type in our discount rate. We're assuming a discount rate of 10%. We use the decimal in the spreadsheet function here. We take the future cash flows and type them in individually here. These are all the future cash flows. And then we add a negative number in, or subtract the initial investment here, to determine that present value. And we could also use the cell references in our formula, and that would give us a value of 32.1. So we want to compare this with the cash flows in rows six and seven, or actually, the cash flows are in row seven. The periods are described in row six. And we could type the formula in again and type the numbers in, but we have this in a spreadsheet in cells that are easy to reference, so that's usually the easier way to calculate that present value. We'd take our rate here. It's in cell B8. We'd take our future cash flows. That's in cells C7 through F7, and we add in a negative value in B7, which effectively is subtracting 200, and that gives us a net present value. I don't know if you've typed it in here or not. I'll wait for a minute, if you want to type it in and see the answer. So we see that the value is actually lower for the second set of cash flows in this particular instance, with a discount rate of 10%. And these particular future cash flows for our investment of 200, that the magnitude of the future cash flows, even though they happen later, actually generate more value in this particular case. Now let's use this to-- well, let's summarize how this could be a useful figure of merit. The net present value again is the sum of all of the cash flows that happen in the future, including the initial investment. So it's the present value of our future cash flows plus the investment, which is a negative number, and that's our net present value. Now, what's our criterion going to be if that's our value? What is the acceptance criterion for the particular investment we're making? Well, if we're discounting the cash flows exactly at the rate that our investors expect, we would want our future cash flows discounted to the present to at least-- we would want it to exceed our investment, at least equal it, but we would want it to actually do better. If it equals, then we're barely meeting the investor's expectations. But we would want it to exceed the investment. So if our NPV is this formula, and we want the future values to exceed our investments, we would want the NPV to be greater than zero. That means our future values exceed our investment, and that would be a good investment decision on behalf of our investors. So that is our acceptance criteria. We invest if the future value of our cash flows is greater than the investment up front. So the NPV is greater than zero. The net present value, considering all those cash flows, is greater than zero. Let's apply this to the example we used with our payback period and return on assets before. So the projected cash flows are the same, and we will use these free cash flows like we did before. But now we're going to discount them to the present, so we need to assume a discount rate. So if we use the 10% that we used in our previous example, we would type in 10%. These are the future cash flows, the 12,100. We add in the negative 30,000 and the time 0. The sum then becomes, or the net present value becomes, 91. That's greater than zero, and so we would invest, if our discount rate is 10%. However, we recall that this is an energy technology company, and the investors expect growth. They have higher expectations. So the firm uses a discount rate of 15%. Simply changing this value from 10% to 15% has a dramatic impact on our net present value. It now becomes negative 2,373, which is less than zero. So given the expectations of our investors for Plata Solar, this automation equipment is not a good investment. So we've seen now the net present value can be used as a figure of merit. It's definitely good because it incorporates the time value of money, which the payback period and return on assets did not. It's also based on relevant cash flows. The payback period can use relevant cash flows. The return on assets is an accounting calculation which doesn't necessarily incorporate all the relevant cash flows, but this does. In addition, the net present value gives us an actual value. It quantifies the value that's been created for the investors. That's a nice advantage because we can actually look at it to compare different ones and determine which set of cash flows creates more value. There is a weakness however, and we saw that if we pick a discount rate that's lower, it can make our decision very different. The discount rate has a strong impact on the decision we're making. So we have to make sure we're picking the right discount rate on behalf of our investors. That may be a tricky proposition, and it motivates us to consider another figure of merit of that we'll discuss in the next segment.
