So now let's look at the network design for a recycling network-- in this case, battery collection. So what's the situation? Well, across the world, over 40 billion batteries are sold per year. Used batteries contain toxic and hazardous compounds. They can hurt the environment. They can hurt people. They can hurt animals. There have been an increasing number of regulatory requirements, particularly in the European Union, such as the Directive on Batteries and Accumulators, passed in 2006. Now, the collection rate of batteries has improved dramatically from about 25% in 2011 to 45% in 2015, and the recycling rate for consumer waste batteries is almost 50%, although this varies widely by different parts of the world. But the challenge here is how do I design a network for collection points, consolidation centers, and recycling plants to receive and process these used batteries. So we want to formulate a mixed integer linear program to design the reverse logistics network and the used product flow from collection points to recycling plants. So here's what it looks like. On the left, you have collection points. And I'll have many, many, many of these where people will return their batteries. And somehow, I will collect those and move them to some kind of storage or sorting location that's local, and I might consolidate that up to a larger regional or to a centralized one. And then eventually, they'll go to recycling facilities. Now, why would I consolidate from local to regional to central? Well, as I move and have more product, I can use more efficient transportation. And so it makes it much more efficient, just like we have the process going the other way. Do we want to go downstream in the forward logistics flow? Here I'm just doing it backwards. I'm consolidating. So here's a simplified design. I have three collection points-- a regional sorting center, and then I have two recycling facilities. And you see even with a simple network, I have a number of different options and ways that I can take batteries from collection point to different recycling facilities. So I can model this like a network design problem. Hopefully you're getting very comfortable with this. I look at my objective function. I've got three terms. The first term is the fixed cost for those j terms, which are the sorting depos or recycling facilities. Do I open them or not? The second term is for the handling cost at each of those facilities. It's multiplied for all the flow that goes through it. And then the third term is the transportation links, the cost of moving between the facilities. Moving down the constraints, I'm subject to making sure I don't exceed my supply. I match my supply. I don't exceed my capacity at my facilities. The third is of linking or logical constraint. So if I use a facility, I need to make sure that I'm actually turning it on and paying for it. The next constraint is just conservation of flow. What goes in must go out. And then I have a constraint on the number of facilities I can have. These are all pretty standard, what we've been using for the last four weeks. So hopefully you're comfortable with this. If I give you some numbers on the simplified network, you should be able to put those into a network problem, into a mixed integer linear program. In this case, I'm showing it to you in a spreadsheet where I've got my objective function up here. My decision variables are in yellow, and I've got my series of constraints. And you have access to this spreadsheet if you want to see how it's set up. I can solve for that, and so it will give you a solution. Very simple, simple network design here. Here's the starting solution and the end solution, so the costs. And out of these number of different flow paths we have going from collection point through sorting depos to recycling facilities, we've determined that these are the paths to open. And so this is just like a network design. Now, what we're doing here, though-- it's more of a flow optimization. We're seeing how should products flow through my network. And so you can view it almost as a mirror image of a forward logistics network design. There are some studies that try to look at both the forward and the reverse logistics at the same time. But to be honest, it's not that common. Anyway, hopefully this gave you a good understanding of how you can use all the tools that we've already taught you about network design and mixed integer linear programs to help you with the design of the reverse flow.
