In this segment we will talk about system attributes or system constraint. So the first order of business is to explain what they are. And it can be explained through an example. Recall that the capacity constraint that we had before were item level conditions, or item level constraint. What does it mean? We had the condition that on a particularly lane, a particular carrier can carry only x loads. I think carrier one a to b could carry only five, or whatever. This is an item level constraint because it's a particular origin destination pair on a particular item up for bid. There could be also system level constraint. For example, the vendor may say, I can give you only so many trucks, or I can serve only so many lanes, or I can do only so much business with you. So you now you have to find the best solution, the cost-minimizing solution, subject to the fact that you meet the carrier demand, or you meet the carrier constraint. So this is now a system constraint. And a system constraint, there are many types. It's not the one-- and we'll give some example. We'll talk about it more as we go along here. By and large, they require the introduction of more elaborate mathematical constraints of the optimization. We always represent this condition through constraint, because we want to meet this condition or this attributes of the problem, so we introduce a constraint and make sure that they get the minimum cost subject to the fact that this condition is met. So we introduce this as a constraint into the optimization. Another example of system condition is vendor preference. Here, the vendor does not put up the condition, we as the auctioneer, or as the procurement department, put certain conditions. For example, we would like a certain carrier to get at least that much money because we like them. Or we like a certain carrier to be the carrier of choice of not more than 25 lanes, because we're not sure about them. Or whatever, whatever the reason is. But this is a condition that we introduce. But again, since we want to meet this condition, we introduce it through a constraint. And we let the optimization minimize cost subject to meeting this condition. In both cases, by the way, whether it's item constraint or system constraint, item or system attributes, the resulting optimization cannot have a better solution than before. It cannot have a lower cost than before. The cost can be only the same or worse. So this doesn't matter if it's item condition or system condition. So let's talk about the first example. In the first example, we introduce a fleet constraint. So each one of the carriers here can say, I can serve only 25 shipments. I say use the same number, just as an example. It doesn't matter. You can use any number here. Here are the tables are the same. The construct are exactly what we had before. But when we look at the spreadsheet, what we have to make sure, the extra constraint here, is that this number, which is actually the sum of the loads that this carrier, carrier number one, carries, has to be less than this number. So we have to make sure that the resulting number after the optimization is less than 25. Also, the same thing for the other carriers. So the total the number, the sum of the loads that this carrier is carrying, which is here, is less than its condition. So here is the extra constraint. We say that de16 is less than j8 k8. If we look at it in the solver screen, this is the extra solution. And here we get the solution. So we see here that the total cost is higher than $19,500 we had before. This is to be expected. We just add a constraint. And we see that the conditions are met. We see that none of the carriers has more than 25 loads. In order to meet the constraint, if you tried to compare the solution to the original solution, the original solution had 10 and zero. So this optimization moved five loads from carrier one to carry two on a to b, because it figured this is the best way to minimize the cost and still meet this constraint. Turns out it's not the only way. In this particular case, there's also in additional solution that will have exactly the same total cost, meet the constraint in exactly the same way. But you see that the location of loads to carrier is different. That's OK. You can have different solution as long as the constraints are met and the total cost is the same. This happens, by and large, because of quirks by the optimization. We're not going to get into it. Let's now talk about other example of preferred supplier or condition that we may put in. For example, a condition that's very common in the United States is that minority carriers or women-owned businesses should get at least x percent of the business. This is part of the social mission of corporation, try to encourage diversity. A company may say, I want to make sure that incumbent suppliers, those that I dealt with last year, will get at least 50% of the business. This is a very common system constraint because companies don't want to change everything. It is too complex to introduce everybody into their system. So they want to have some carriers that know the system before. Where they are being used, it's not clear, let the optimization determinate it. How many of them are being used? If it's 50% or 60%, I want this at least 50% to be the old carriers that I know. Another constraint can be, my brother-in-law is running a trucking company, should get at least a million dollars out of this auction. OK, I don't know where my brother-in-law will get the million dollars. And I want to make sure that in total I can minimize the cost, subject to the fact that my brother-in-law will get at least a million dollars. So let's now talk about a different type of constraint. We are now trying to put a minimum volume constraint, similar to the brother-in-law constraint. And want to make sure that carrier two gets at least $13,000. In order to introduce this constraint, we have to add the construct here. We have to add this particular row to the spreadsheet. This row is the total dollars that each carrier get. And it's simply a multiplication of this times this, the cost times the number of loads on each lane. So this gets with this cost. And this gets me this cost. Here we are. This is the optimization. This is the minimum dollar volume for carrier two. And this is the sum product of this times this. And here's the sum product of this times this. And we now go to the optimization. And we introduce the condition that the first condition is that the, here, this is greater or equal than this. So we have to have at least 10 on each lane, the integrality, the non-negativity, and now the condition that these two have to be bigger than these two, which means that this has to be bigger than this. And this has to be bigger than this. So we want-- we have actually no condition on carrier one, because he can get more than zero. That's not a constraint, really. The constraint is that carrier two should get at least $13,000. So this is the solver screen. And if we run through the solution, we get that here is the minimum, which is higher than before, because we introduce another constraint, of course. But notice that the constraint is met-- the constraint is that, basically, carrier one gets more than zero. It's not a constraint. But carrier two gets over $13,000. The constraint is met. The question is, why does it get the-- obviously, we don't like carrier two. It's too expensive because the solution is higher. Why do we give carrier two more than $13,000? Why doesn't it stay exactly with $13,000? And the reason is that we use integrality here. If we would have allowed the optimization to assign 5.92 carriers, or whatever, this would've been an exact solution. So we would have given carrier two exactly $13,000. But because of integrality, Because we have to give integer number, we cannot hit exactly $13,000.
