CONNOR MAKOWSKI: Hi there. My name is Connor Makowski, and in this recitation, we'll be covering the "Food on Wheels" problem. And in this particular problem, we are attempting to help a food delivery company deliver boxes more effectively, or, in this case, more speedily or faster. They essentially have two different kitchens, and they deliver from these two kitchens by bike to five different areas in a city. If you're not familiar with the problem, I'm going to go ahead-- I'm going to scroll down here on the right-hand side. I'd recommend taking some time to understand what's happening in the problem and to fully understand what you need to do for this particular problem. All right, so now that we understand what's happening in the problem, we're going to go ahead and start coding. So to get started coding, the first thing we want to do is go over here to our Google Colab notebook. And inside of that, if we are using Colab, we're going to want to install the SCX package. So I'm going to hit the Play button here. That will go ahead and install my SCX package. So once we've installed the SCX package, we're going to go ahead and import our modeling class from our optimization module inside of that package. So I'm going to go ahead and hit Play here, and that'll essentially allow us to use this anywhere we want inside of our code from now on. So now we can call that model to do things for us. Before we get to that, let's first talk about what our data structure is going to look like. So the first thing I want to do here is, inside of our problem, we have some different things. We have demand, we have some constraints on what our kitchens can produce, and finally, we have some delivery times. To keep things simple, the first thing I want to do is actually model our transportation times. So you can see this table 2 at the bottom. So in this particular case, we have a list of dictionaries. So our transportation table, we're actually going to translate into a list of dictionaries. And what we'll do is, from kitchen 1 to area 1, we'll actually say something like origin_name=K2, or kitchen 1, and destination_name=A1 or area 1. And that allows us to represent this table, actually, as a singular list of items. We'll do the same thing for area 2-- kitchen 1 to area 2, that's five minutes. And so on and so forth until we get to the end, where we get to the kitchen 2 to area 5. And if we look over here on the right-hand side, that's 15 minutes. So we can say, from K2 to A5, that's going to be 15 minutes. And so we've essentially codified our entire kitchen-to-area time table. And we've codified that as a single list of dictionaries, which is quite helpful and gives us some other benefits later on. The next thing we want to do is actually model what our kitchen constraints are. So our kitchen constraints are currently that kitchen 1 can prepare 250 boxes a day, and kitchen 2 can prepare 350 boxes per day. And so K1 has a limit of 250, and K2 down here has a limit of 350. Now, it's important to note that K1, whenever we use it here in kitchens, we're also going to match the exact same name up above in our transportation matrix. And we do that so we can have some other code benefits later on. So now that we've modeled our limits for our kitchens and how many boxes a day we can produce, let's go ahead and look at our demand. So we have our demand table up above. So area 1 has a demand of 101. Following that same idea of "list of dictionaries," we have that name of A1. So again, that's going to match A1 in our transportation table. So that exists there as well. And we'll say, what is our demand? Our demand there is 101. We'll go ahead and we'll do that for all items in our demand table. And we can go ahead and move on from there. So let me go ahead and run this code, and that will run all of those data structures and create those for us. And we can go ahead and move on. The next thing we want to do is create a decision variable for how much we want to flow in each one of these transportation items. So I'm going to scroll down-- actually, let me go ahead and pin this code cell so we can use it further down. And so for T in transport-- er, for each dictionary in the transportation matrix, I want to create a new variable in the dictionary called T amount. And that variable is going to be created by calling, again, that model-- remember, early on, we actually imported that model. So it's going to be model.variable that allows us to create a changeable variable using the SCX package. Now, what is that variable going to be called? We're going to say that variable is going to be named this particular f string. So I'm going to go ahead and close the cell down for now. So it's going to be this f string here, and that is going to be-- oops, this f string-- the origin name of our transportation matrix. So remember that origin name that we specify, for example, K1, and then some underscores followed by our destination name inside of that transportation matrix and then the amount that we're going to flow. So A1-- er, sorry, K1_to_A1_amount. The final thing we can do is a little shortcut we can apply here. When we create a variable, we can apply a low bound. And so this is a lower boundary or a lower limit. And so, for example, this is a nonnegativity constraint. We can say that the lower bound for this particular variable is going to be 0. So if I run this, what does our transportation matrix actually look like, or our transportation list of dictionaries? I'm going to go ahead and create a new cell, and we'll show what the first one of that looks like. So I'm gonna say print T-R-A-N-S-P-O-R-T, transport bracket 0. So we're going to print the first item in our transport table or our transport matrix. And you can see the origin name is K1, like we had had before. Destination is A1. The time is 17. But now we have a new item in that dictionary called amount, and that's a variable that we can now modify. So it's going to be K1, A1, amount. Since we did this for each item in transport, we created a loop here. All of our items in the transport matrix will now have this amount that can be modified by our optimization program. So I'm gonna go ahead and delete this code cell now, and we'll go ahead and we'll start actually thinking about what our model is going to be. In this case, what we're going to do is initialize a new model. So we're going to call that model. Remember earlier, we called model.variable. We can actually also just call model, and that will initialize a brand new model for us. And that model we're going to call, we're going to name it FOW, Food on Wheels. And the one thing we can specify with that is whether or not we want to maximize or minimize, and that's the sense of the model. So the sense for this model is to minimize it. Now, we're going to call this my_model. So we're going to create a new variable in Python called my_model. And that will have some accessible items for us that we can then modify to create our full model that we're going to have-- so my_model. So the next thing we want to do is add an objective function. So now we have my_model, what are we trying to actually solve for? We want to add an objective. So we're going to call that function-- or, technically, that's a method attached to my model. We'll say my_model.add_objective, and everything in here-- I'm going to say the function I want to make as my objective, or fn, is going to be the sum of everything in this particular list right here. So the sum of everything in that list is what I'm trying to make as my objective. What is that sum? That sum is actually going to be the amount that we flow on each one of those items in our transport matrix times the amount of time that it takes to flow each one of those items. So I'm going to say the amount we flow times the time it takes to flow each item for T in transport. So for every item in our transport matrix, we're going to go ahead and take the amount times the time. So our objective function, again, is the amount that we flow times the time it takes to flow it. And we're going to try to minimize that, remember. So that's the sense, is to minimize. So you can see down here, our core task is deciding which area to serve from which kitchen to minimize that total delivery time. So the next thing we want to do is make sure that we actually satisfy all the demand. Because if I just say, hey, solve this, it'll say, hey, look, don't ship anything anywhere. Well, we actually need to make sure that all of the demand is met. And so, to meet all the demand, we're going to add some special constraints for our demand. And we're going to say, for each D in demand-- so we're going to create another loop. And so for each D in demand, we're going to add a constraint to our models. We're going to say my_model.add_constraint. And from that, we're going to say-- we'll create a new constraint called whatever the name of that demand is. I'll just scroll up real quick. If the name is A1-- so we'll call this A1. This first one that we're looping over is going to be A1 demand. And so this constraint is A1 demand. Now, what does that actually equal? That's going to equal that function. So we're going to say fn-- so fn equals. And what does fn equal? Well, it's going to be the sum of something. Let's not talk about that too much. The sum of that is going to actually have to be greater than or equal to our overall demand for, in this case, A1-- so for D in demand. So this has to be greater than D of that demand. So if I scroll up here, you can see it has to be greater, for A1, than 101. And so we've just codified a way to say, hey, look, take all of this together. Add it up. And that has to be greater than my demand. So what are the items we actually have to add up? In this case, if we scroll up to our data, what are things that flow into A1? So technically, kitchen 2 flows into A1 here, and that's going to be 7. And we also have kitchen 1 also flows into A1. But none of the other transport flows go into A1. So how do we think about that, and how do we codify it? We're going to go ahead and dive into what this sum is. Here's this model's sum. We're going to create a special list of items that we're going to be summing over. And so we're going to say the amount-- so the transportation amount for T in transport-- so we're going to do all of the items in that transport list only if-- so that's this core statement right here, is if-- if the destination name equals my demand name. So only if my destination name equals A1 will I actually incorporate this in the list. So everything, only if it was those two that we saw before, we will add into this summation to be greater than or equal to that demand. So I want to make sure that you guys take a time, understand fully what's happening there. That's a super important point. And once you fully get that, we'll go on and we'll start moving on to the kitchen capacity constraint from there. But take a second, pause the video, rewind a little. Make sure you really understand what's going on there because, for future constraints, we'll go a little bit faster over some of them. All right, so now that we fully understand or have a pretty good idea how these constraints are working, let's go ahead and add another constraint. We have to remember that each kitchen can only produce a certain amount of boxes per day. So we'll say, for K in kitchens, or for each kitchen, we're going to add a new constraint. So my_model-- remember, we're calling that class or that object-- .add_constraint-- we're going to say that constraint is going to be named the name of the kitchen with another part of the variable following saying kitchen capacity. So for example, [? K1 kitchen capacity. ?] And so what is the function of this constraint? The function of this constraint is going to be the sum of whatever this is. We'll get to that in a minute. And it has to be less than or equal to the limit for the kitchen. So if we go back up to our kitchen, we can see that our limit is, for example, for K1, 250. So we're saying that everything that comes out of kitchen 1, altogether, has to be less than 250. So how do we get the items coming out of kitchen 1? We're going to use a similar trick to what we used with the demand when we do this. So we're going to take the sum of everything in this particular list. So we're going to say the amount of flows coming out of kitchen one for T in transport if-- and this is only if-- the origin name-- so where the flow starts or where the transport starts-- equals our K name or our kitchen name. So we're only going to include variables in here if those two match. And that just ensures that only things flowing out of kitchen 1 get added into this limit. So we can ensure that we never oversupply from kitchen 1. And the final thing we need to do here is to solve the model. So we'll say my_model.solve. And that just calls the solver, and it does everything for us and makes sure that we get an optimal solution. Or it will give us some feedback if we do something wrong. So I want to go ahead and hit Play here. We've solved that model. The next thing we can do is actually check the formulation to make sure we formulated it right. Even though we did get a solution, we're not sure if we did formulate right. So let's go ahead and look at that formulation. So these are arbitrarily created based off of the information you provide. So we're minimizing 17. Remember, that's that first kitchen 1 to area 1 times the amount we're flowing from kitchen one to area 1. We'll do that for all items in all of our transportation matrix pieces. And let me go ahead here and scroll back. We're going to save that. We're going to minimize that subject to the fact that we have to meet all of our A1 demand. And that's actually going to be our kitchen 1 to A1 amount plus our kitchen 2 to A2 amount, and that has to be greater than or equal to 101. Again, that comes back to the fact that we have 101 items in our demand. We can see that we do that constraint for each item in each of our areas. And finally, we make sure that our kitchen capacity doesn't get exceeded for each of our kitchens. And so it looks like we have formulated this properly, and we should be good to go. You can also see a list of all the variables that we've created that we're willing to change. So now that we've looked at this model, it all looks good. We've already solved it. Let's go ahead and see what our outputs look like. So I click this Play button here for my_model.show_outputs(). Remember, there's some parentheses here. That means I'm calling a function. It'll go ahead, and it'll show me what my outputs are. So we can see our objective. So this is the output of our objective function, is 3,663. So let's go ahead here in our edX, and let's go ahead and answer some of these questions now. So if we're going to start by formulating our model, which of the following optimization components should be included in this model? So we don't have any binary variables. We do have an objective function. We do have a demand constraint. We have to meet the demand. We don't have a linking constraint. We don't have a conservation of flow constraint. We do not have a-- oh, we do have a capacity constraint for our kitchens. We have a nonnegative constraint for our amounts that are flowed. So we should be able to submit that. And it looks like we got that right, so that's great. So now, the next thing we want to do is, what is the minimum total delivery time per day in minutes? So if we go ahead, we can see here, our total delivery time is 3,663. So I'm going to enter that in here, 3,663. And I guess I can round it two zeroes, so 3,663.00. And we'll go ahead and submit that. And it looks like we got it correct, so that is great. We have successfully completed the first part of this problem.
