LAURA ALLEGUE LARA: Welcome to the Part 2 of the Blink problem recitation in optimization using spreadsheets. I hope you're having a clearer perspective now on how to build optimization models. And now, please if you haven't yet, please pause this video, read through Part 2, Question 1, and return to us in a few minutes. So the only new pieces of data were provided here is that we're now having a revenue per unit and that we're going to maximize profit instead of minimizing cost. So this is very important to adjust our model. And if we would have to change everything in our spreadsheet, it would be adding the revenue calculation, separating revenue and transportation costs, and then calculating profit, adjusting our solver to maximize instead of minimize. And we would be all set. That would imply making a lot of changes to our model, right. You probably already know this, or you will soon, that in the practice problems ungraded assignments we usually tell you to disregard one piece of data once you get to the next part of a problem. Or we ask you to evaluate different scenarios. When probably in the future, you're going to need something of the model you already built for Part 1. So as we're going to make many changes here in Part 2, our best recommendation-- and I promise it will save you a lot of time when we're working on exams, and time is precious on exams-- is to duplicate your spreadsheet instead of just overwriting it. So let's just go to our top, click Move or Copy, move to the end, same book. I will create a copy. And that's it. So I will now name this Part 1, and then Part 2. OK. So bring in this Part 2 with me being a replica of Part 1 will imply that I also bring my solver settings. This is very helpful. Because if you were building it from scratch, it will take you additional time. And if you were overwriting data, in the future if you need to go back to a previous scenario, you would also need to readjust your solver settings once again. Let's follow the same approach. We read our problem statement, identify the new components. We're bringing this piece of information to our spreadsheet. So I'm going to write here that my revenue is in dollars per unit. It's going to be 45. And that's it. That's all the new information I've got. Keeping art practice of color coding, I'm going to turn this into gray, because it's also provided information. I'm going to move everything down a little bit to have some more space to build my new objective function. You know that now transportation cost is just a piece of my objective function, because I also have to calculate the revenue. So I'm going to add the revenue calculation here. And then I'm also going to include probably here my profit. And this is what we're going to maximize. We've been told that profit for them is calculated like revenue minus transportation cost. So that would be my profit function. And then in terms of my revenue, the revenue is in dollars per unit. Miles have nothing to do here. So this is just going to be the sum of the units flowing to each region times the revenue per unit. And with that, we have our profit calculation. Let's adjust our calculated fields, and our new objective function being this one. I'll just make it numeric format. And probably we're good to go. So let's give it a try. I'll go open my solver once again. And as I mentioned, I'm going to get all the information I had from the previous Part 1, because I just duplicated my data. My objective function has actually changed. It's now profit, and I have it located in a different place. So I'm going to select it now as before. My variables are still the same. I'm still sending units flowing from plants to regions, so no changes there. I'm still keeping non-negativity constraint for the variables. I'm also keeping my demand. What I need to change now is that I'm maximizing instead of minimizing my objective function. So let's see what happens if we just solve this. OK. We got an error message, which you can clearly see. And it says that the objective cell values do not converge, which means that it can make it as large-- or small, if we were minimizing-- as it wants. And why do you think that happened? Did I miss anything when reading through the problem statement or were analyzing my data? You probably already noticed that if I got an error message, definitely I missed something. But let's think through it together. Let's go back to the problem statement and read again. So there's a small detail that we didn't notice, or probably I just skipped when we went through Question 1. And this is about keeping in mind that the units that we ship to each region can't exceed the region demand. This is something we talked about briefly a few minutes ago during Part 1 recitation. And it's related to the demand constraint and how we build it. We told the model that it could send the number of units demanded per period or above that, right. But for this profit maximization approach, if we tell the model, you can exceed the demand and the revenue is higher than the cost, then we will always have profit if we ship one more unit. The model is telling us now that it can never stop and it will never find a maximum number. Because the more units it sends, the higher the profit. And it will continue running with no ending. And that's why it's giving me an error message. So this is clearly not what we want. And also it's clearly not what really happens in real life. We don't necessarily can send anything we want to our clients. We usually have a number, a demand. And depending on the client's flexibility, if we can exceed it a little bit, but definitely it's not an infinite number of units we can send. So let's adjust our solver, and now have it all set to actually find our maximum profit. I'll click Solver again. And I will go to my demand constraint I will click Change. You can either change it or delete it and add it again correctly. It will just change it. And what we're going to say is, according to the problem statement that I cannot ship anything more than what they are demanding. So I need to ship exactly what they want. So I'm going to just change it to equal. The arrays are OK. We can double check that by doing this. I will click OK. And I will solve my model. And you can see, we found a solution. So no error message, which is great. And we actually got the maximum profit we need to input in our Question 1 on Part 2 of this Blink problem recitation. I invite you to answer this number. Remember that you still need to use two decimal places. And please, if you have any further questions, use the discussion forum to interact with our staff team. Thank you, and see you in Part 3.
