So now let's compare the approaches for all the different ways we solved the fixed planning horizon problem. So here are all the ways that we did it. On the first column here-- well, first we've got the month, the demand, the one-time buyer, the one-time run algorithm where we do everything at once. We've got the lot for lot. The EOQ-- or the fixed order quantity, the periodic order quantity, the optimal-- whether it's Wagner-Whitin or the mixed integer linear program, Silver-Meal. And then I also threw in the other two myopic heuristics that we didn't go into great detail with. But if you look at it, with the lowest cost-- it better be the optimal one, right? Of $37.50. And what I have is their turnover. And you can see all the costs. But then I also did as a comparison of the percent above optimal. And you can see the worst one is that one-time run or the one-time buy. 263% above optimal. Pretty bad. But the other one's, a lot of these, especially the specialized heuristics, aren't that bad. Within 3% to 7%. And even some of the simple heuristics like the periodic order quantity is only 7% above. Now was it like that in all situations? No. That's the thing with heuristics. Sometimes they work really well. Sometimes they don't. In studies that I've seen is the Silver-Meal algorithm works usually the best. It's within a couple percentage points of optimal. And it works better than some of the very simple ones here. Now sometimes-- and this doesn't sound like it makes sense. The myopic algorithms-- the Silver-Meal, the low unit cost, and the part balancing-- can give better solutions than the optimal. Why would that be the case? Well, the case is that you're optimizing over something that changes. So you're optimizing the wrong problem. Think about what we're doing in either the Wagner-Whitin or the mixed integer linear program. We're optimizing over the entire time period. So 12 months out I'm creating that data just as much, just as valuably as tomorrow. And so I'm finding the optimal approach looking at this entire time period. The problem is, things change. So if I'm optimizing over this whole 12 months, but there are dramatic changes in months 12, 11, 10, or further out, then that can cause problems, because my whole solution might hinge on those months. The myopic heuristics, Silver-Meal and the other ones, they're myopic. So they're only really making decisions on the near term. So they're making decisions on the information they were probably more confident on. I'm probably more confident about the forecast next month or two months out than I am for the forecast 12 months out. The way these approaches usually work in practice is that you work on a rolling horizon. So I make my plan for the next 12 months. Then the new demand comes in, I move up a month. And I forecast again for the next 12 months. And we'll talk in a later lesson how we balance being very nervous and changing our plan each month, or making a little more sticky or calmer. But this is similar to things that we've talked about for forecasting. When do I want to make it a nervous system? When do I want to make it a more calmer, stable system. But if you look at these different methods, there are many different methods out there. Heuristics-- they're good. They're fast. They're easy. But they're not always going to be totally accurate. Specialty heuristics are more sophisticated, a little bit harder to set up. And I know you guys probably struggled going through Silver-Meal the first time. But they tend to give us better real world results. Now optimization usually is a good idea. It requires more time of data though. And it allows for the introduction of other constraints like capacity, which is a good thing. And they tend to give the optimal solution for the given data. So there's a big but here. They assume perfect forecast information. They treat today's date at just as important as next year's. So every piece of data is equal in optimization's eyes. And the optimal production plan is based on all of that data. So as I said earlier, sometimes when forecast exhibits significant change, these myopic heuristics like Silver-Meal can perform better.
