So now let's talk about inventory considerations. How do I incorporate inventory costs, whether it's pipeline, cycle stock, safety stock, into my supply chain network design model? The short answer is you don't. Most analyses don't consider it. And in fact, there's a great quote by Jeremy Shapiro in Modeling the Supply Chain, is that it's almost an open secret. People who develop the models know that they're not including inventory into it, but that secret isn't usually transmitted to the clients. A lot of people who are supply chain managers think that a network design model also is making the trade-off with inventory, in addition to facility costs and transportation. The majority of the time, it is not considered. So you might ask, why? Why isn't it considered? Why don't we explicitly manage and monitor inventory in strategic network design models? Well, it's hard, because inventory policies, and the tools we use to come up with the design, don't fit with each other. Inventory policies are based on randomness, or probabilistic models, stochastic models, and they don't combine well with the deterministic models of the mixed-integer linear programming. So they really are different methodologies that don't necessarily fit well together. Secondly, all the determinants of your inventory policies that will in turn determine what your safety stock, cycle stock, and pipeline inventory levels are really only known tactically. You don't know your demand variability strategically one, two, three years in advance. The lead time you're going to have, the service level, the order size, all of these things are decisions made at the tactical level. So fixing this in strategically kind of doesn't make sense. It's almost false precision. The third reason is when I want to manage inventory, I think of an inventory balance equation. And using an inventory balance equation across an entire year, which might be the time bucket of my strategic network design, just doesn't make sense. A lot can happen in a year. And we talked about time-based models, where you have different time periods, that only makes sense for tactical modeling. So it really doesn't make sense to explicitly include inventory into the strategic network design. So what are some approaches that we can do for considering inventory cost? Well, there's really three approaches. The first one, and the most common, is ignore it. You treat it separately. You handle it offline. You let people know that you're not including inventory in the analysis. And sometimes this makes sense. If the inventory costs are a really small component of the supply chain cost, then ignoring it is probably perfectly fine. The second you can do is simulate it after the network design is done. So you come up with a model, which facilities you open and close, and how much demand each facility serves. You have to come up and assume a distribution of the demand. And then you can set your safety stock levels, your ordering policies, all of those things. The problem with that is that you're setting them according to the theory. And so you might have a cycle service level of 95%, and you're going to assume that you are actually going to operate at that perfect optimal level. And that really doesn't happen in practice. You can do it this way-- It's going to probably underestimate the amount of inventory that you're going to have. A third way that I like is to estimate it. And let me talk more about that. So let's talk about the easy one first, pipeline inventory. This is actually pretty easy to model. So I can just include my holding cost during pipeline moves into the unit cost for transportation. So if I know that something's moving from i to j, I should know the distance. I should have a rough idea of the length of time. So I can just put in the value of the product, the holding cost of that product, and therefore get a good sense of what the pipeline inventory cost would be. Now, if I'm doing a distribution model, where everything's going less than a day's travel, then this doesn't matter. Pipeline inventory for something that short is a rounding error. However, if I'm modeling the design of things coming across the ocean, where you might have a two or three-week transit time, then it matters. And so I want to include pipeline cost. And it's very easy to do. You can just add it in to the unit transportation costs. Now, where it gets tricky is with cycle and safety stock. But as luck would have it, as you observe this in practice, you see that it tends to follow a non-linear function with respect to the throughput at that facility. So you can think of it following this type of relationship, where the inventory, the average inventory at facility I, which is I_i. is equal to some parameter alpha, which is estimated, times the throughput of that facility, say, over the course of a year, raised to the power of beta. And beta is another estimate that ranged from 0.5 to 0.8. Now, this is a non-linear relationship. So it's saying as throughput increases-- so it goes from 1, to 2, to 3, to 4, inventory doesn't increase 1, to 2, to 3, to 4. It doesn't increase linear-- It's less than linear, so it tapers off. And that's because the beta is less than 1. If this beta was 2, it would say that inventory increases exponentially as throughput increases. But it's less than 1, so it tapers off. So what would I do with this? Well, here's an example. This chart shows each dot is a facility in a network. And what I've done is I've mapped each one in terms of what its annual throughput is and the average inventory at that location. Now, in this example, I used cases, because that's the common unit that's used in this model. I could do dollars. I could do pallets. I could do tons, barrels, whatever. And so I come up with this relationship. So every facility's on here, and then I do a regression line. And this regression line is of the same non-linear relationship. And in this case, I end up with a function there where alpha is 2.5, and the beta's 0.643. So what do I do with this? Well, now, I can determine whatever the throughput is that I can determine what the composite cycle and safety stock would be. So how would I use this? Well, let's do a case. So with case A, I have one DC that needs to put through 80,000 cases per year. And then the other option I have is two DC's, each that can handle 40,000. So for the case A, I can see that the inventory-- I can either use the equation or use the chart-- would be about 3,500 cases in average inventory per week, month, whatever my time unit is here. Case B, I'll be down here at 40,000, and it comes out to be about, what? At 2,250, something like that. But there'd be two of those DC's to handle that 80,000-unit throughput. So I double it, and it comes out to 4,551 cases, the average inventory. So what have we done? We've shown that if I go from one facility to two facilities, the inventory doesn't double. It actually increases close to square root of 2. This should sound very familiar. The square root of 2 policies that we have, where if I go from one facility to two, that the inventory theoretically will increase by square root of 2, not by 2? So it's the same thing here. That's why the parameters for that beta go from 0.5 to 0.8. Now, why don't I just use the square root of 2? Well, because in actual practice, you probably won't achieve that. You might have a little more inventory. And so this tempers that theoretical relationship with actual behavior, which is really nice. So you're capturing what you actually do for inventory, and applying it to your network design-- similar to how we looked at the pilot cases and you do the baseline case when we were doing initial scenario network designs. So in that case, you wanted to compare what you actually did to what you actually might do, not to a theoretical number. So let me clean this up a little bit, and we can think about how I include this in my model, because I could do it after the fact. But another thing I could do, if desired, I can turn this non-linear curve, which is hard to include in a mixed-integer linear program, into piecewise linear segments. So I can say that if the facility is less than 40,000 units handled, then I turn on a binary variable. And during that time frame, it adds the variable amount of cost for the average inventory. If I fall up here, in this period, then I add a new fixed cost, and then I add a different-- it's a slightly less additional marginal cost for inventory. So we can include this. This would greatly increase the number of variables we have. Think of these, every facility has multiple binary variables. But you can do it. The other way to do it is after the fact, see what you think the new safety stock and cycle stocks would be. So inventory is not explicitly considered in strategic network designs that use mixed-integer linear programs, but you can estimate them and include them after the fact-- or, if you want to, you can try to model them within the model. It just gets to be a very large model, and it gets somewhat complicated.
