OK. So this is the last lesson of the last week. So before we dive into it, let's look backwards. What have we done so far in this course? Well, everything was about what the supply chain is, and what's focus of the flow of information, the physical goods, and the financial. It's all about how to handle these flows, and so that's why we focused on them collectively and then each of them individually. So we start with the physical flows, move to information, design, and what we'll do in this lesson is talk about design of the organization itself. So for the physical flows, what we did is we modeled the problem. Hopefully, you're very comfortable with these problems, and you see that they build off each other, so that transportation and transhipment problems are really all about flow, while the location problems are all about nodes. So arcs and nodes, and they come together when we do a network design problem. And there's all sorts of different flavors of these problems, but we really focus on the standard form that allows us to use Mixed-Integer Linear Programs or MILPs. And hopefully you're very comfortable with MILPs at this point because we've used them throughout this entire course. But hopefully, what you've taken away or you will take away is the whole idea here that the interpretation and the implementation is more important than the actual math and that you understand what it is you're doing and understand the limitations of these types of solutions. Because they're not perfect, but they give you some good support to help you make a decision. And again, to drive this a little further, remember, these are decision support tools and the accent is on support. They're not making the decision. Then we moved to information flow. And we've covered sourcing with some strategies and methods, and we spent time using Mixed-Integer Linear Programs showing you how they're used for optimization-based procurement, which is widely, widely adopted. We covered make, and this is where you coordinate between manufacturing and sourcing and the demand in production planning. And, again, we use the same optimization tools to show how you make those decisions. We talked about bills and material, fixed horizon planning, where you have varying demand, but it's deterministic and it's widely used in production scheduling. And then we finished up there with the delivery, collaborating with customers, again, using the optimization for aggregate planning and distribution channel design introducing different ways products can flow and introducing different channels both closed loop supply chains as well as e-commerce. And they all have a role. And what's really interesting, this is very much evolving. So what's being done today, this year, might be very different a year from now, so there's a lot of flux here. And then we finished up with Sales and Operations Planning, S&OP, which is something that every company does. We went into financial flow. And remember, all we're doing is translating so you can speak the language of the CFO. And so we introduced you to income sheets, balance sheets, or income statements rather, balance sheets, cash flows. I know it's a lot here, but you need to have a working knowledge of some of this. It's probably worth, if you really want to get involved and move up in your company, to get more knowledge, a little more into finance and accounting. We tried to give you enough so you can understand and do some basic translation. And we focused on these five areas, and hopefully, you're fairly comfortable with them because activity-based costing is widely used in every company. Working capital is something you really need to understand because that cash-to-cash cycle time is something that every company is looking to shrink. Discounted cash flow analysis is going to help you make decisions for investments. Supply chain finance is an up-and-coming technique that a lot of large companies are using to work with their different suppliers. And then the financial analysis, the DuPont model, that's another way of helping you make investment decisions. So what we're going to do in this lesson, well for the remainder of this lesson, we're going to answer this one question. How should a supply chain be organized? And we're going to focus in on what's the structure look like, how has it changed over the last couple of years. And then the big question that every company asks, what and if, do I centralize or decentralize? What are the functions, the tasks, the processes that I keep in the headquarters? And what do I keep at low to the field? And there's a lot of debate, in fact, a lot of companies move back and forth, back and forth. Centralized this year, then two years later, they decentralize and go back and forth. But we want to talk and give you a framework to make that decision. Then tied to that is how do you measure the performance of these systems and these processes. So we'll talk about the basic primary processes and supply chains and then how to measure them. We'll talk a little theoretically about this, how do you measure performance of any process and then build on that, how to build metrics and metric systems. So that's what we're going to do for the rest of this lesson. I hope you've enjoyed it so far, but let's get started.
