In the last segment, we considered how some of the figures of merit that we might use do not consider the timing of cash flows very well. So in this segment, we'll talk a little bit more about the time value of money and why that's important and talk about a process called discounting and the discount rate to deal with that. So if we look at what is the time value of money, we have to start with a question saying, why is today's cash more valuable than tomorrow's cash. What is the value of money today versus tomorrow? And as we discussed in the last segment, one reason is that if we have cash today, we can invest it and get further returns. So there's an opportunity cost of waiting until tomorrow because we forgo those investment options. In addition, there is the impact of inflation that over time as our purchasing power goes down because of inflation, we would rather have money today and buy things today than wait until tomorrow when the prices go up. Finally, there's a risk component that receiving cash today is better because things may happen between now and tomorrow and the receipt of cash is not guaranteed. So we don't really formally consider inflation, as we mentioned, in the first lesson in these analyses. And we don't get as far as it really addressing risk formally in this week, but there are other important factors, although we will only consider the opportunity cost in determining the time value of money. So how do we consider this in our analysis? We're going to calculate what we call the present value of our future cash. So we're going to take tomorrow's cash and turn it into a present value. And therefore, cash flows that happen at different times in the future can be compared on the same basis of the present value. And we'll do that using a discount rate. And we'll introduce what that is. So, the present value. How do we think about the present value? Well, let's start by thinking about something maybe we may be more familiar with, and that is the future value. So FV stands for future value. And PV is present value. So if we have a present value of money and we invest it at a growth rate of r, then we take that present value times 1 plus r, and then we raise that to the exponent n, to determine the future value. This is a concept called compounding. So you may be familiar with this. For example, if you put money into a certificate of deposit at a bank, and they say they guarantee to pay you 5% return, then you would put 0.05 in for r, and you'd multiply your present value, the money you invest now, times 1.05 raised to the number of periods-- years in this case, if they're doing 5% annually-- the number of years in the future, and determine what you will get back on that certificate of deposit, depending on the duration of that certificate. So that's compounding. If we simply divide both sides by 1 plus r to the n power, we will-- it's simple algebra to come up with a different equation that helps us calculate our present value. That's taking our future values and dividing that by that 1 plus r to the n. This is a process called discounting. We're discounting the future cash flows into present values. And so the r now is, instead of a growth rate, it's considered a discount rate. Now it's important that you make sure that the time period you're using for the number of periods, as well as for the growth rate or the discount rate in the period, are using the same time unit. So typically, in all the analyses we'll do in this lesson we'll focus on annual periods and annual rates. So we see that with the present value formula, we now incorporate the magnitude of the future of the future cash flows as well as the timing of the future cash flows, the number of periods in the future. There's one other variable that really will affect the calculation of our present values, and that's this r, the discount rate. This will be an important assumption in calculating the present values to compare different options. And this rate is determined based on considering this fundamental investment process that we described earlier. So remember our debt investors and our equity investors give the firm money. We invest it and get future returns and then return it to them. So the debt investors have a certain rate that they have agreed upon with the firm, and it's a formal contract put in place that we will pay them back. For example, a loan at a certain rate over a period of time. The rate that the stockholders, or the equity investors, expect depends on what options they have in terms of investing in other financial assets. So they will consider the risk of investing in our firm versus other risks they have in their financial portfolio and then determine an appropriate rate. Combining these rates together helps us determine what is the appropriate discount rate for our firm because the discount rate is based on our investors' expected rate of return when they give us their money. An example of how to do this is something called the weighted average cost of capital, or WACC. And I'm not going to describe this in detail. But it basically balances this equity rate, which has a higher risk because they get paid after the debt holders, and the debt rate, which is going to be different and a little bit lower because it has lower risk for the debt holders because they're paid before the equity investors if there's any liquidation. So combining those together will give us a weighted average cost of capital. Now, one important note here. We mentioned before in our net operating profit after taxes, or NOPAT, that we didn't incorporate the interest expense when calculating our taxes. There is a benefit of paying interest because it reduces our tax burden and taxes are a relevant cash flow. But the way that it's suggested is by adjusting the debt rate by that tax amount. And so it separates the cash flows for financing from the cash flows of operations, which is what we're really focusing on when we're considering that investment in operational assets. So the WACC is one example, there are other ones. For example, a capital asset pricing model, CAPM. There's different approaches for determining the discount rate, and this will be set by finance. However, our role in supply chain is to, once the discount rate is given, make sure that we're giving a good return on the discount rate on the operational assets, that we're providing those future cash flows to give a proper rate of return. And if we do that, if we at least meet the discount rate of return, the expectation from the expected rate of return for our investors, then our stock price should remain constant. We're meeting their expectations. If instead, we exceed the expectations, our returns are higher than that rate, then more investors will want to invest in our company and the stock price will go up. Consequently, if we fall short and we don't provide that proper rate of return, then our investors might sell, our equity investors might sell their stock, and our stock price would go down. So our role in supply chain and providing an appropriate return on the operational assets really has a strong impact on the overall performance of the firm. And in some ways, this is why this is also called the hurdle rate. This hurdle rate of the discount rate sets the hurdle by which we have to run our operations to exceed the expectations of our investors. So we now have all the components that are in place in order to conduct our discounted cash flow analysis, which is really what we're going to focus on in this lesson. And we'll talk about that in the next segment.
