In this lesson, we're going to combine the different techniques we've learned in the two previous lessons into one model. We'll take the network optimization we learned two lessons ago, and combine it with the facility location models we just learned the previous lesson and tie those together into what's known as a supply chain network design model. Now we're going to use this through an example, and it should be somewhat familiar to you. It's an extension of the New England Root Beer Distributors case we've been talking about all this whole week. So we're going to call this NERD four, and there's a case study write up attached to this video in the reference section. If you have not read that yet, please do. Let me just go over the case objectives. The objective of the case is to understand how NERD, a distributor of root beer in the Northeast of the United States, should explore and restructure its network. And there are two main things they're looking at is one, should they source from this new supplier that's in Bellows Falls? And should they reduce some of their distribution centers? Remember from reading the case, you'll remember that they grew those DCs through acquisitions. They didn't necessarily want to open up distribution centers always where they were, but they acquired a company and that's where their facilities were. So that's why they kept it. So some of the details, we know that NERD sources its product, which are barrels of root beer from a single plant in Scranton, Pennsylvania. And it ships its products by truckload carrier to five distribution centers located in Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and New Hampshire. The product is stored at these DCs, and is then distributed by a local carrier to the 12 different cities it sells-- it has markets in. And each city is supposed to be dedicated to a single distribution center, but if you read the case, you'll see that's not always the case. It doesn't always happen that way even though it's supposed to. The distribution centers vary in size, there are three large ones that can handle 1,000 barrels a week and they're in Boston, Providence, and Worcester. And then there's two smaller ones that handle 500 barrels a week in Nashua and Springfield. So this is what your network looks like. Product comes from Scranton, delivered to all five of the DCs, and then they in turn, are supposed to deliver to their primary cities. And you can see that each city is dedicated to one distribution center. However, as I said earlier, it doesn't always work like that. Sometimes, Springfield might send some cases of beer up to Brattleboro or down to somewhere else. So this is how it's supposed to go, but we'll talk more about that. So the questions we want to consider. Is it the right number of DCs? Right now, I've got five. These red ones. These red cities in Nashua, Worcester, Boston, Providence, and Springfield. Should we consider sourcing from Bellows Falls? And just so you know, this is where Bellows Falls is. That's where the other plant is. Should I ship from there to any of my DCs, all of my DCs, some of my DCs, how much? And then does this configuration, that network I have, does it provides sufficient level of service? And we'll talk more about that. And then finally, does this current configuration-- can it handle an increase in demand? What if my sale for root beer goes up? Can my network handle that? Am I building a solution that's very fragile to the existing demand? So these are the questions we want to solve. We're going to formulate a model, but the first step we need to do is figure out the data. So we need to collect some data. So that's what we'll do next.
