So now let's talk about the fundamentals of connecting the sales and operations. We've seen this chart before and we've kind of focused over on this side so far. We have the business strategy comes in then we talked about how do you have the sales and operations planning process. But everything we've talked about so far has been all about the levers that opps have, whether they determine how much inventory, how much production, all those kind of things. What we're gonna to do now is shift to the other side and talk about some of those demand side levers as well. But first, how does it all fit together? What are we trying to solve? Well there's really three big questions we're trying to figure out. We're trying to understand how I should change supply, how I can modify or meet demand by changing how much I produce, and what the mix is going to be. And interestingly the priority is matching supply and demand first, then that helps dictate the volume they're producing, and then finally determine what the mix is going to be between the SKUs. How much to make of what. The interesting thing when you talk about supply and demand, we talk about it being together, but you're really going to decouple them, because if you have supply problems or challenges, your levers match. They're different. Same thing with demand. Now it's very important to know what the impact is. So if I have a change in what I can produce for my supply, what is the impact on the demand, and vice versa. But the levers are done separately so you should almost decouple those to understand what you can and can't change. So we talk about balancing supply and demand. You can think about managing supply and managing demand. So let's review what we've done for supply so far. You really have two big categories. You can manage the capacity, which you are capable of producing, and then inventory, what I've already produced. And for this list for capacity, these should all look very familiar because these are all the levers that we just talked about in the Dire Wolf problem. I have workforce flexibility on hiring, firing, and using overtime. One example you see in practice a lot is seasonal workforces in retail and transportation, such as UPS and FedEx. They will hire a lot of seasonal workers to handle that holiday rush at the end of the year. Subcontracting an outsourcing is widely used and this is something that allows you to respond quicker to changes in demand and also, sometimes, the outsourced manufacturing could be cheaper than what you can do internally. Now we didn't talk about dual facilities but it's worth mentioning for a second. You might want to have two sets of facilities. One is specialized in making a certain product or certain category and it handles a stable flow and you make that as efficient as possible, but then, you've got a separate facility that handles peaks in different categories or different families, and it has to be flexible. Now it's more expensive per unit, probably, but you use this to handle those peaks across the different product categories. You can also think about product flexibility. If all my products are very modular, in that they use the same, say, base chassis, if it's auto manufacturing. Then that actually increases my capacity that I have to produce. Now the other major lever I have is inventory. We talked about pre-building but you can also think along the lines of common components or modularity here as well. If I have the same engine block going in many of my automobiles that I'm manufacturing, then I'm using risk pooling to reduce the volatility, because I have fewer parts going to more end items. So you can see how we've talked a little bit about these different levers that you have on the supply side. And the demand side, we haven't talked too much here so let's introduce some things. First, what are the objectives? What is the demand side, the sales marketing team doing? There are really three big things. First they want to grow the market. They'd love to make the whole market bigger because that would increase sales. Second, they want to steal market share from a competitor. So maybe the market size doesn't get bigger but the percentage that your company serves increases. And the third is maybe you want to shift the buying patterns. So in our example of Dire Wolf, the demand in the summer was very low. So maybe I want to do something to incentivize customers to behave differently. Buying in the summer months. Buying a higher quantity. Things along those lines. So the levers that they have are really related and it all comes down, essentially, to pricing. So if I have pricing, this is the way I can incentivize my customers. We've seen this before when we talk about discounts for order size. So I might have minimum order quantities, MOQs, and these are all things that incentivize me to buy more, to shift my buying pattern. I might increase advertising. So as I advertise more, not only does that help me grow my market share, that might also help me steal market share from other competitors. And these kind of come together in what's known as promotions. And promotions are the primary tool that a lot of manufacturers use, especially if I'm selling to consumers. So consumer packaged goods here, whether it's laundry detergent, anything along those lines, you see a lot of promotions. Now, what happens here, is I'm doing a price reduction over a shorter period of time. And so the question we're going to look at: If this is the levers that I have on the demand side, how does this impact my supply? Because that's what the S&OP process is really all about. How does what I do on one side impact what I'm doing on the other? So what we're going to do next is use the same problem, the Dire Wolf problem, and see how these demand levers can be integrated into the same process.
