So let's dive just a little deeper into the centralized versus decentralized decision-making process. So there are pros and cons. And these are really two extreme solutions. For the centralized option, that's where-- here's my corporate headquarters, and let's say I have these different business units, or different divisions in different regions across the world. And the idea is that I will make all the decisions at that central location. And these could be deciding how much inventory to stock, what to procure, who to buy from for transportation services, all the different rules and policies. So the benefit of doing it up here at this central location is that we leverage economies of scale. I might be able-- for procurement, for example, be able to buy, get a high enough volume where I get a larger discount since I'm buying for one, two, three, four different regions in this case. It allows me to harmonize policies and practices so I can establish best practices, things that make sense for my industry, for my company and strategy. And I can roll those out and make sure that everyone is using, say, the same forecasting technique and being in parallel process for this. So everything is harmonized and standardized along the best practices as I deem fit for my entire company, and it also allows for global or optimal solutions. So I might be able to find a solution that is best for the entire company, not just for one or two of the individual divisions because I'm making the trade-off decisions centrally. Now, the other option here is just the opposite, where I don't make any decisions centrally. I make them all locally. This is decentralized. So the decision of who to procure from, how much inventory to stock, how to run my operations, demand planning, all of those things are done locally for my individual business unit or division. What are the benefits here? Well, the decision-making is closer to the customer because chances are I'm facing a different customer here versus, say, over here. It might be that this division is selling to large retailers. This is selling to manufacturers or to other companies in my own industry. So they might be facing different customers. So by allowing me to make decisions individually I can be closer to my customer and make decisions that are more appropriate for them. It also allows me to reflect local cultures and customs because these could be across the world in totally different geographies. It allows for optimal solutions within that region. If I come up with a centralized one, yes, it's perfect-- or it's optimal, rather, across the company. But as we've seen in a bunch of different cases, that might mean that this division pays the price so that this division has better service or lower costs. Overall it might be better, but the benefits are not always shared evenly across all the divisions. By doing it decentralized I'm trying to optimize for each region by itself, and it allows the business units to act autonomously. Sometimes it's very hard to run things always centralized. You tend to be further away from the action, a little further removed from the decision-making process. So you've got these two extremes, and no one does dramatically one or the other. It's usually a hybrid between the two. But let's talk a little more about it. So here we've got global operations because most companies have operations at least in two countries, if not two continents. And so you have a supply chain that looks something like this. So you've got to ask yourself, if I have a bunch of things happening in Southeast Asia, that's probably going to be very different from my operations in Latin America. I might want to be managing them very differently. The currencies change differently, the standards, the cultures are all very different. Same as if I'm in North America versus Africa. So the geographies is a natural way to decentralize some decision-making. Maybe there are certain things I want to do on the ground in each of the regions and maybe centralize some other decisions. Well, it's not just geography, though, because we can look at some of these other large companies. And here's just a sampling. And so you can't imagine that all of the decisions are being made centrally. You look at a company like Tata, which operates in over a hundred countries, has dozens of companies, and they make things from cars to tea to perfume to bikes to watches. So chances are the individual business units, the strategic business units, are going to be a little closer to their different individual customers and be able to make some decentralized decisions that might be better than one centralized authority. Same thing with General Electric. They make things ranging from aircraft engines to railroad engines, household appliances, consumer financing. They're all over the place. Same thing if you look at a company like BASF. They have over 70 different strategic business units across the world, and they produce things that sell to construction industries, to agriculture, to electronics, paints, papers, plastics, and they sell to almost every company you can imagine. Even a company that tends to be in the same space, consumer packaged goods, like Unilever and P&G, they have very different products that they're selling, and they sell in different channels, different distributors, and they have very different characteristics. A company like Starbucks, which you would think, well, just selling coffee, they're actually very different in that they have retail operations. They sell into grocery stores. They also have manufacturing operations. And they're also moving further upstream in their supply chain, so different parts of the company will probably operate a little differently. Not all decisions are made centrally. They might be made decentrally depending on the geography, the type of customers you're selling to, the business units and very many other factors. So we had a thesis a couple years back here at MIT where some students looked at this and they wanted to understand, OK, we're not going to have everything centralized or everything decentralized. The question is, which decisions-- which functions do you tend to centralize and which do you tend to decentralize? What makes sense? And so what they did is they looked at all the different types of decisions you have to make and they broke them into three classic groupings- strategic, tactical, and operational. And if you look at the strategic decisions being made, these are the things that take about a year to implement, very high impact, high risk. If you think of network design, those kind of things. So they bucketed two main examples here, long-term capacity planning and sourcing decisions, because those have long-term effects. In the tactical bucket, these are things that get affected monthly or quarterly, have a kind of a medium risk factor. And you put in transportation planning, inventory planning, short-term demand, manufacturing planning, and internal improvements. And in the operational, these are the daily, weekly kind of activities. It's order fulfillment, order management, shipment handling. So if you look at these-- and you can see the impact goes from high to low, and the number of decisions go just the opposite. These decisions are made every day. So there's a ton of those operational ones, very few of the strategic ones. But what they're trying to figure out is through a survey and discussions and interviews with executives where do you make these decisions? And so what they came up with is a decision-making-- they kind of mapped the process. And, again, they have these three buckets- strategic, tactical, and operational. And they grouped the companies that they interviewed and surveyed into four categories- consumer packaged manufacturers; they're in blue, industrial products manufacturing; they're in that dark green; light green is logistics service providers; and then retailers are this kind of salmon color. And so what we have here is there are different questions we're asked, and as the number gets higher for each of those segments that means more centralization. And as a number gets lower it tends to be a decentralized. And so you can see what the big takeaway is, more strategic kind of decisions tend to be centralized. You centralize your sourcing. Economies of scale fits in there a lot, long-term capacity planning because you're balancing across all the different regions. At the other extreme, the operational decisions, or fulfillment, or management, shipment handling, mainly the outbound shipment handling, these are things closer to your individual customers, so it makes sense to be much more decentralized, closer to your customers, to make those decisions. Now, there was also a survey that was done about a couple years later by PricewaterhouseCoopers. What I like about it, it took these different activities and surveyed a bunch of companies and asked what percentage-- or whether you manage this globally, centrally, or regionally, decentrally. And you can see the different tasks, and they're sequenced-- or they're sorted by going from high to low where new product development is something that tends to be managed globally because it has really high impact. And as you go down, you see that it's a decreasing amount that is managed globally, strategic procurement, supply chain centers of excellence, those are all over 60% of the company say this is what we do centrally, we manage those globally. Now, the center of excellence, this is a typical organization within a company that establishes best practices, standard processes, best ways of doing something for that company. It's a way to ensure a standard level of quality and performance across a very wide ranging organization. The other interesting one right after that is S&OP. This makes sense, right, because this is something that helps me balance all my supply and my demand across my whole company. So we're seeing more and more companies move S&OP into something that is run globally because what it's doing, it's not just balancing between my production and my sales team, it's the entire companies because there's oftentimes a lot of shared resources. And, for example, two organizations in different business units might use the same common transportation. So therefore, the strategy that one entity takes might impact what's available for the second. So the S&OP process is a way for a company to balance those decisions and make those trade-offs across the different units. Now, as you see this number get smaller and smaller, things get closer and closer to operational type tasks, inbound and outbound logistics, customer service, warehousing, things like that. So the big takeaway here is that you're focused on more strategic things tend to be centralized. Things that are more operational and focused to the customer can be more decentralized and done individually in individual regions and business units. Now, what we're seeing more and more is across these large companies with multiple business units or strategic business units, like I said, some companies might have 50 or more of these. And so every strategic business unit is like its own company. There's usually a president, and they have P&L responsibility, profit and loss. And so they very much have that authority within their business unit. However, they all have shared services in terms of logistics. And so what we set up here is similar to what you do in a company in between, say, finance and marketing and manufacturing, but here it's much more formalized. So you might have someone who reports directly in to the business unit president but has this dotted line to the head of logistics. So someone who's serving two bosses-- and it's a challenging position, but it makes sense because they have to make sure that what they do helps the business unit but also has to adhere to the standards that the logistics function needs to adhere to, needs to enforce. So usually what happens here is you create the service agreements or some kind of rules of the road between the head of this logistics and each of the business units because the logistics services they provide to, say, Strategic Business Unit One, might be entirely different from what they provide here for Business Unit Two. Let's say this Business One might be selling to industrial customers, to other manufacturers, so that means big-batch deliveries on a schedule, can't shut a production line down but then might have other product's going to a retailer and that's much more on a fixed schedule, much more seasonality due to sales. And so they might have very different structures set up, different ways of forecasting, managing inventory, managing transportation, and everything in between. So what these service agreements usually need to dictate are what decisions are made locally within the business unit and what decisions get to be made centrally, in this case by the logistics organization. Who do the teams report to? How does that reporting structure work? How do we balance trade-offs between the strategic business units? These guys might use, for example, common transportation or production facilities. It makes sense for them to share facilities if it leads to better operational efficiencies. So someone has to balance the use of those and that's what the shared service is there for. How do you run the sales and operations planning process across these business units? And how do you charge for a fund to shared service models? A lot of times what happens is the logistics company will charge an internal cost to the business unit so they can make a decision whether to use the internal logistics or go outside. So this structure, this hybrid structure, is very, very common in large organizations. And it is something that works very well. But what it requires is that there has to be an arrangement or an agreement, a service-level agreement between the logistics function, the supply chain function, and each of the different business units.
