All right, let's take a big, deep breath and focus on what we've learned in this lesson, because it was a big lesson. We did a lot of different things. What are the key takeaways? Well, we introduced two basic network flow models. The first model was the transportation model. So this is where I'm going from origins to destinations, and I'm flowing in. I'm trying to find the minimum cost. We introduced the idea of a math formulation. We have an objective function, which is what I'm circling right now, subject to a series of constraints. And in this case, the transportation problem has supply constraints that everything flowing out of an i to all the different j's has to be less than or equal to the supply that's there. And then you have demand constraints. And these simply say that everything flowing into a certain demand node has to at least be equal to the demand that's required there, the D's. And all my flow has to be 0 or greater. So this is the granddaddy of flow problems, the transportation problem. We then made it a little more complicated, because that's what we like to do. And I added what's known as hubs, or transshipment points. Let me just circle those. So now, we have sources. We have sinks, or demand nodes. And I have transshipment hubs, or mixing centers. And the only difference between the transportation problem and the transshipment problem is that I have to add in these flow conservation constraints for any of the transshipment hubs. So this is simply saying what goes in must be what goes out. So what goes in for A has to be equal to what goes out. What goes in to B has to be equal to what goes out. And it's very logical. You need this to enforce a network structure. Now, a lot of limitations-- these are the simplest problems in the world, even though they're complicated the first time you go through. But we had very simple cost structures. We only had variable cost on the arcs. There were no fixed arc costs. There no node costs. In fact, I assumed that you're going to use every single one of these. I didn't have you decide which plant to use, or which DC, or give you the choice of whether to open one or not. We ignored that and said, you're going to use everything that's there. The question is, how much are you going to use it. We had a single commodity. I assumed that the sand you produced here at plant one was the same one desired at each of the customer locations. There isn't specific commodities or product types. I assumed that they're all fungible. What I produce in one can flow to anywhere-- single commodity. I also assumed a deterministic solution. My demand is a constant. It's an input. I didn't allow any variability of the demand, of the supply, or the flow. This gets more complicated-- and we'll talk about this later on-- but for the first cut, we assumed very deterministic solutions. Also we assumed everything was uncapacitated. I had no capacity constraints here at my distribution centers or at my plants. I just had a supply limitation. But you could think, it'd be a little more complicated if I said, you know what, this distribution center or packaging center A can only handle a certain level. And then that would force things to happen. And we'll get into that. Same thing with arcs, it might be that this arc can only take a certain amount of volume. We assumed total uncapacitation. There is no capacity limits. Infinite can flow. And so you can kind of see the path we're going to do. We're going to reduce some of these limitations, loosen some of these assumptions. And the models get a little more complex, but they get a little more realistic. We also did something that's really fundamental. And you'll use this throughout the course and probably beyond in your career. And that's the whole idea of formulating a model. And there is a classic process for this. The first thing you have to do-- and these are kind of common sense-- read and understand the problem thoroughly. 90% of the time, if you have a problem, you didn't read the problem that carefully. And in this class, and in other ones, if English is not your first language, read it twice, because a lot of times, the wording is critical. Once you understand that, figure out, OK, what are the things I'm trying to decide? What are my decision variables-- what the spreadsheets call changing variables? What are the things I'm trying to decide? Then you say, OK, what is the thing I'm trying to minimize or maximize? What is the objective function? Am I minimizing cost? Am I maximizing profit? What am I trying to do? Then you say, OK, what am I subject to? What are my constraints? I need to make sure everything coming out of a supply node doesn't exceed supply. Everything going into a demand node has at least be the required demand. I need to make sure that for transshipment hubs, what goes in, what goes out-- all the different constraints. And then you identify upper and lower bounds. For this, we only had a lower bound on the decision variable, zero. You couldn't be below zero. But there might be cases where you need to have a certain level, a minimum. And then you solve it. It's very important that you understand your assumptions and limitations. There is often a naive assumption that these complex models are perfect. And they are not. They all have assumptions. They all have limitations. They're models. They are never reality. They're abstractions of reality. And as I move closer and closer to reality, it gets more complicated. And we're building in more assumptions. So the most important takeaway from this is be cognizant and recognize the assumptions you're making in any model that you put together. All right, that's it for this lesson. So please use the comments for any questions. If you have suggestions, let us know. Use a discussion forum. And I'll let you look at Dexter, wondering how he can optimize his way to his own ball through the fence.
