So we just discussed projected cash flows. We're now going to talk about relevant cash flows. What makes a cash flow relevant? Why is this important? Let's come back to our overall evaluation process for an investment or a project. And we noted that, in the project cash flows, we're talking about how to estimate the future cash flows or project them into the future. But we have to make sure also, in this first step, that all the cash flows we are projecting are relevant to the particular investment or project that we're evaluating. So we asked the question, what is a relevant cash flow? We have two principles to help us answer that question. The first principle seems pretty obvious. And that's the cash flow principle that only cash flows where money moves are relevant. So if there's a cash flow where money's not moving, it's not relevant. It kind of seems self-evident that, when there's a flow, there's money moving. But we'll see it can be difficult to assess that at times. The second principle is with or without. So we're only going to consider cash flows relevant if they are different with the investment than without the investment. Or if we're looking at a project, with the project or without the project, any cash flows that differ between those two are relevant and any of the ones that don't differ are not relevant. Let's talk more specifically about these principles. The cash flow principle-- again, money has to move to be counted. So it's either money that's going can be received by the firm or it's a cash inflow or paid out by the firm as a cash outflow. But if the money's not moving in or out of the firm, we don't count it. So some examples of things that are not cash flows are accrual accounting. Accrual accounting may register income when it's earned, when we make a sale. But cash hasn't moved yet. So it's not a cash flow until the cash moves. Some other costs that we will incorporate into our financial statements, like depreciation, are also not cash movements. There's not cash moving with depreciation. The cash related to depreciation all moves when we purchase the asset upfront. Depreciation is a cost where there's no cash movement in the future. In addition, we have to think about whether cash is moving in and out of the firm. So if there is internal budgeting transactions that are equal and it's just internal and there's not a change in cash flows, then that's not relevant. It's not a cash flow. So for example, a headcount transfer where somebody is removed from one group and added to another-- so say we are able to do our work more efficiently in our supply chain group and we can reduce headcount. If that person is then deployed to a different group in the firm, then there's no cash flow related. Because the salaries are still being paid by the firm, even though our internal budget may go down. The flip side is, if we are able to identify employees who are being freed up in another group and use them on our projects, we won't have to incorporate their salary in our project cash flows either. So that internal budgeting is all within the firm. Cash is not moving in or out of the firm. Therefore, it's not a relevant cash flow. The with or without principle is really focused on whether things are incremental and incremental to a particular project or investment, not the overall cash flows in our firm, the overall revenues or costs. And we're not talking about before the project or after the project. But actually, since we're always looking at projecting future cash flows, it's not before or after. But it's better to think about it as two worlds, with or without the project. So we have two directions. We're here in the present. If we're looking forward into the future, if we have time going forward, then we have a with scenario and a without scenario. And what we're looking at is, in the with scenario, what cash flows we have. In the without scenario, how are they different? And we're measuring the cash flows that are different between those two scenarios. And so, the incremental cash flows are the cash flows with the project minus the cash flows without the project. So we'll subtract these two, get this difference to determine the relevant cash flows. And therefore, because we're talking about with or without the project or the investment, obviously, the cash flows are going to be directly related to that project. And they're going to be incremental. Also this is an example of things that are not cash flows, future revenues or costs that will accrue regardless of whether we make this decision to invest or to implement a project. So it won't, again, be all the revenues in our firm but any incremental revenues from implementing a particular initiative. Things that are also not cash flows are overhead costs. Even though they may be operating expenses-- like rent and utilities or supervisor salaries-- if they don't change as a result of implementing the project, with the project, then they're not a cash flow. Even though we may think that by taking inventory out we won't have to use as much utilities in a warehouse, it's not necessarily the case that, with or without the project, we would change our utility consumption. Let's think about these principles in a few different cost categories to get more specific. We talked about depreciation earlier. And again, depreciation is related to an asset that's been purchased already. Therefore, the cash flow happened when we purchased the asset. The full cash flow for the cost of that asset happened earlier. But the accountants will depreciate this over time and incorporate them in our income statement over time. But there's not money moving. Even though we show it in the income statement, there's not actually money that's moving when those depreciation amounts are incorporated in the income statement. However, the depreciation will reduce our income on the income statement. And therefore, it will affect our taxes. We'll have less income as a result of that depreciation, therefore less taxes. And taxes are relevant cash flow. So it's important to incorporate depreciation into our calculations, because of the tax impact. But we'll have to add it back in and make sure that we don't account for the actual depreciation as a cash flow in our analysis. And we'll show you how to do that in a future segment. Another type of accounting cost that we have to consider is overhead. We just set that overhead costs are generally not going to be relevant. Because with or without, they may not change. And they may not be incremental. However, there are situations where overhead could be associated with the scale of the firm. And by adding a new product line, we may have to actually add some headcount to manage that from a marketing perspective or a product perspective. Or if we add equipment, we purchase new equipment, we may need to add some special expertise in terms of maintenance or add more maintenance time. And we can really directly link it to with or without. So you have to make sure the overhead expenses. Although in general, overhead may not be affected by with or without, there may be situations where, as we grow enough, we can identify a specific cash flow difference. Sunk cost is another kind of cost we have to think about. And it's tempting to include these, because it's money that's spent. You've spent the money. But we can't recover it. So it's spilled milk in one sense. And the sunk cost should be ignored. In other words, we don't cry over spilled milk. It happened in the past. We can't change what happened in the past. Therefore, we should only look to the future and the cash flows that happen in the future. This seems pretty obvious. But it can be tricky to implement. And there's an example I'm going to give you of a government contractor in the past. They were seeking a federal guarantee for a loan, because they wanted to continue developing a new major technology. They'd spent a lot of money developing this new technology and needed more money and more capital to keep the project going. And there were two arguments that were made in that situation. One is, it's foolish to abandon a project, because we've already spent $1 billion. We should keep going. Whereas, the other side is, we shouldn't continue a project that we can't get a decent return on. If we can't finish the project-- we've spent $1 billion-- we shouldn't continue it going forward. So which argument is correct? Hopefully, you realize that this is sunk cost and both of the perspectives are wrong. The sunk cost is irrelevant. And especially when you have a large amount of money-- like $1 billion-- it's tempting to incorporate that in your analysis. But it happened in the past. It's not a future cash flow. Therefore, it's not relevant. Cash isn't going to change with or without any future decisions. Opportunity costs are another tricky cost to consider in applying these principles. So an opportunity cost is any cash flow from an alternate option that we will forgo, because of our decision to invest or to implement a project. And we have to have a clear difference. So let's illustrate this with a couple examples. So let's say we have some land that we are planning to sell. That sale will proceed if we don't build on it. So we want to add a warehouse. There's some land that we own. We're deciding whether we build the warehouse or not. And the cash from that sale of the land that would happen if we don't build is an opportunity cost. Another type of opportunity cost is some capacity that may be idle currently, but it has a planned use. So maybe we have a factory line that's down. But somebody's planning to use in the future. Or some warehouse space that's free, but there's a planned use for it. So do we account for the cost of this space or not? It's idle space. Therefore, we think maybe we shouldn't incorporate that. But do we incorporate this opportunity cost or not? The answer is opportunity costs should be included in the evaluation. Again, thinking the with or without principle-- in terms of the land sale, if we implement our warehouse and build our warehouse, with the warehouse we will not sell the land. But without the warehouse-- because they're planning to proceed forward in selling the land-- we're going to forgo the sales revenue. So therefore, it would be relevant cost. Likewise, idle factory lines or warehouse space that has a planned use-- it may be idle now or may be empty warehouse space. But there was a plan to put a new product line either in the factory or in that space. If you forego that plan because of your decision to implement your project, then that opportunity cost of that plan is something we have to incorporate. It's a relevant cost, even though it's not something that's currently happening. The key in all this is there has to be a plan in place. It's something that you're going to clearly forgo this because you would proceed to sell the land or because you would plan to use the idle space. So the key is the intention. It has to be already planned and that we're now going to forgo this. One kind of opportunity cost that is a bit special is any capitol that we free up through our projects. That capital could be reinvested. And there could be an opportunity cost for those investments. But the capital-- the actual capital that we can free up-- is something that we don't incorporate in our analysis, because of the nature of how we do our discounted cash flow analysis. And we'll get to that in the next session. It's implicitly incorporated in how we do our analysis. Therefore, the capital the we are able to free up-- we don't consider any opportunity costs of investing that capital. Let's finish this segment by considering a specific example and seeing how we can determine what cash flows will be relevant. So it's a very simple scenario. We have a fictitious company named White Nile. They're an online retailer. And they are considering a new warehouse. They want to build a new warehouse to provide better service for their home delivery for their retail operations. It might be good now to stop the video and take out a piece of paper and write down some of the cash flows that you think would be relevant. And consider the supply chain design options that you've come across in this course thus far. And think about what kinds of relevant cash flows of costs and revenues and investments and so forth. What cash flows would be relevant in this scenario? OK, hopefully you had some time to take out a piece of paper and write down some ideas for relevant cash flows. And I'll walk through a few of them. You may have thought of some other ones. But I'll walk through a few of them and see if we came up with some of the same ideas. Well, the first one's probably pretty obvious. We're implementing a new warehouse. Therefore, with the project we have a warehouse. Without the project, we don't. So a new warehouse is clearly incremental. There's going to be cash spent. There's a cash flow happening. So it's a relevant cash flow. So you may have thought the warehouse. We also have to think about, there's also equipment that goes in the warehouse. And both of these things would be a capital expenditure. In addition, if you're thinking about better service, hopefully better service made you think that we can also generate some revenues from this. There should be a reason for adding a warehouse. And with better service, we should hopefully be able to serve our customers better, make them happier, and they'll buy more from us. So more revenue-- with the warehouse, with better service, we have to account for only the revenue that would be as a result of the better warehouse. So in the region where we provide better service, that's relevant revenue. In other regions served by other warehouses, that revenue would not be relevant. Because with or without the project, that stays the same. Also, in adding our warehouse, we have labor. Now, labor is an overhead expense. It's an operating expense. It's considered overhead. And we know that overhead can or cannot be considered relevant, depending on with or without. But this is a pretty clear case. We're adding a warehouse. With the warehouse, we need labor. Without the warehouse, we don't need that labor. So it's a pretty clear incremental change, in terms of overhead and labor for the warehouse in this situation. We also to fill the warehouse with inventory. And again, with the project, we have to add warehouse into this warehouse. Without the project, we don't have inventory. And again, we don't have information about the other warehouses or other inventory initiatives. But just for this warehouse, we have to consider the incremental inventory required to fill it up. And that would be working capital investments. And finally, one other thing you may have thought of is transportation cost. This is related to the design of our network. By having an additional warehouse, we can now-- in terms of delivering landed cost to our consumer, our customer-- we can have longer segments of our transportation in full loads to the warehouse. So we could use our own fleet, for example, fill our trucks up, and be very efficient. And then, we'll reduce the distance we're traveling from the warehouse to the customer, where it's going to be less efficient. Perhaps, we are hiring a third-party with small delivery vehicles to deliver. And that'll be a higher cost-per-mile. So we're reducing the distance for those less efficient shipments to the customer. And therefore, overall, we should lower our transportation costs, which is a lower operating expense. And it would be relevant because, with the warehouse we make this change, without, we don't. So hopefully, this example helps you think about what cash flows are relevant or not. We'll use this example again later on. And we'll put some numbers to it to see how this particular situation could be evaluated.
