Let's start with the simplest location model, the single location model on a continuous surface. So the problem objective of this is to find one location that minimizes the transportation costs from this point to K different destination points. This is also known as the Weber problem, named after Alfred Weber, who first formulated this problem in the early 1900s. So the idea here is, I'm on a Euclidean Space. So it's a tabletop. I can go directly from point to point. There's no underlying network. The center location could be anywhere on the space. So think of a tabletop, and I'm putting one cup anywhere on that table. And the transportation cost is calculated as the distance multiplied by the volume or the weight. So if I have something that's 10 units going 2 miles, that would be 20 unit miles-- same thing as 20 units going 1 mile. So it's the transportation cost, distance times the weight. All right, so here's what the formulation would look like. It should look kind of familiar. I'm minimizing something, and I have my locations. Each location is subscripted k. So I'm saying I'm trying to minimize this function, and the minimized distance is going to be z. So z is equal to the summation for all the points k within this larger set K. And each of those is multiplied by its weight, w_k, times the distance. And that's what this function is, D_k of x, y. So x and y are my decision variables. And this is the x-coordinate, or horizontal coordinate, and the y-coordinate for my center point. So I'm trying to minimize this distance. And my two decision variables are x and y. Those are the variables that I'm trying to find the answer to. So because I'm in Euclidean space, this distance is simply the square root of the sum of the squared differences in the x and the y directions. So this is, x_k is, for the k-th location, or the point, it's its x-coordinate. And here's its y-coordinate. And I'm subtracting off from the center location, squaring that, adding it to that squared difference of the y location-- square root. And that gives me the distance from the k-th point to the center point. So I want to find and select the x and y that minimizes this function. All right, so we can solve this in Excel. And let me give you an example. And we'll use this example for the rest of this week. The New England Root Beer Distributors-- NERD. And at NERD, we serve root beer in New England. And we sell our products currently in just three cities-- Boston, Springfield, and Providence, Rhode Island. So here we are up in Boston. Springfield is out west. And Providence is down south just a little bit. So this is our market. And each one of the cities sells a certain amount of root beer and marketing is giving that Boston sells 425 units. Call it per week, or whatever time period: Providence sells 320, and Springfield sells 220. And the question is, where should I set up my distribution center to service these three markets? Now, I've given each of the cities a coordinate. So they have an x and a y coordinate. So Providence is at x-coordinate 86, y-coordinate 40. Boston is at 100, 80. And Springfield, over to the west, is 20, 60. So these are x, y coordinates. I think it's centered down here on New Haven down here, further to the left. It'll make sense a little later. And so what we're trying to do is find where is the location that would minimize the weighted distance. So where in this triangle is the distance that minimizes the distance traveled for each one of the units, for 425 units from Boston, 320 units Providence, and for Springfield, 220 units. So where will I locate that? If you think about it, you know that it's going to be somewhere within this triangle. There's no way that you'll have a shorter distance that falls outside. And I'll let you think about that, and prove that to yourself. So let's see how we solve this in a spreadsheet. This is restating the problem. And here's my function I'm trying to minimize. And so all I've done is taken the table, and put it into a spreadsheet. You can see that column B shows the weight for each city. Column C is the x-coordinate. Column D is the y-coordinate. And column E, what I've got is the distance. Now, it's finding the distance from what? Well, it's from these x, y coordinates that I put down here in cells C6 and D6. So what this is saying is that Boston is 17.54 miles away from this location. So if I typed in different values down here in cell C6 and D6, that location would change. Column F is simply the weighted distance. I multiply it by the weight for each of the cities. And then down here in cell F6, I'm simply summing them up. Because what do I want to do? I want to find the x and y-coordinates that minimize this value, that's currently 31,179. I can do this using Solver. So what's my objective function? It's F6. It's this cell right here. I'm trying to minimize that. And what cells am I going to change? The cells that are right here in the x and y, that I have highlighted in yellow. Now, for constraints, it's a little different, because I'm solving this with a non-linear solver, because this is not a linear equation. I have to put max and mins. So I set the x-coordinate max to 200, the y-coordinate max to 200. And I'm making sure that they're not going to be negative. And so that's all that these constraints are doing. They're just putting bounds on my decision variables-- have to be greater than 0 and less than 200. But since the furthest I can be-- I'll never be more than 180 away-- so it's pretty safe. Now I'm using a non-linear solving function. Make sure you pick that. If I press Solve, it'll tell you where the answer is. It'll be 89, 66. So this is the location that minimizes, like I said, the weighted distance from each of these cities. Now we're going to talk about a different approach called center of gravity. Center of gravity is something that comes to us very intuitively-- comes from physics. And the way to think about it is, suppose that this triangle was made out of a very rigid material like plywood. And I had each of the cities, instead of the weight being units of root beer, let's say they were pounds or kilograms. So I had 420 kilograms here at Boston. I had 320 kilograms here at this location, and I have 220 kilograms here. What center of gravity is trying to do is say, OK, where would I put a center point to balance all of these? If I had this rigid board, where would I put my finger to balance them all? It's the point of balance, or the centroid. This is what center of gravity means. So how would I find that? Well, all you're going to do is take the weighted average of each of the x and y coordinates. So let's look at the x one. So I would say that the x for the centroid-- that's what this is-- going to be equal to 425, which is the weight of Boston, divided by 965, which is simply the sum of these weights, just summing them all up. So this is the percent of the volume that Boston represents times its x-coordinate of 100. I'll do the same thing for Providence. 320 divided by 965 times its x coordinate, and the same thing for Springfield. And I get a weighted average of 77. Do the same thing for the y coordinates, and I get a y coordinate of 62. So this tells me my center of gravity is that blue dot, right there at x coordinate 77, y coordinate 62. Why are they different? I bet some of you thought they'd be the same. They're different because they're doing very different things. The Weber one, the single location up here, the red dot, minimized the distance times the weight. The centroid-- what its actually doing if you look at it-- it's minimizing the distance squared times the weight. So in other words it's implicitly over-weighting the further locations. So the further it's away, it's like a seesaw. The further I am on on that seesaw, the more my weight is going to count, and not just in a linear fashion, but in a squared fashion. This is how physics works. This is what a centroid is. It's not, however, minimizing the distance times the weight. So when we use this, we want to use the Weber method. We want to use the method that minimizes distance and volume, not distance squared volume. That makes sense in physics, in the physical world. Doesn't make sense when I'm designing a network. So picking between using center of gravity and Weber method for the minimum distance weight, we want to use that Weber point. However, the Weber point's not perfect. And so here I'm showing what the average distances are. And you'll see that the center of gravity, the average weighted distance for location is higher than it is for the Weber one. However, even the Weber one's not perfect. So let's think about this. So the Weber method would say, OK, locate this right outside of Walpole, the little red dot. The problem is we don't live in Euclidean space. So we don't know what's there. There might be a swamp located there. Every location is neither feasible nor equally desirable. Also, there is an underlying network of highways and rails. If anyone's been up in this area, you know there are these certain roads that you want to be on, because they have the better access. This method ignores that. So in practice, in large-scale models, we don't really do it this way. We don't look at the continuous location. We do that to get insights, but when push comes to shove and you're actually selecting a location, you use candidates. You have candidate locations. You'd say something like, OK, I'm going to consider locating it in Woonsocket, Webster, or Hopkinton. Which one is the best selection? Rather than saying, OK, if I could locate anywhere, where should I go? That's always an insightful, kind of interesting thing to do. But in practice, most of these models use location candidates. And that's what we'll do next.
