# week04 lesson1 aggregate planning sop

(SC2x video lecture transcript)

## Introduction
In this lesson, we'll continue our discussion of designing the information flow and supply chain by focusing in on how sales and operations connect. Now remember our overarching question is how do we use information to coordinate the different activities of all the different players and stakeholders in the supply chain? And so previously, we've talked about procurement. We've talked about how you work with your vendors through better sourcing, sharing of risks. We've also talked about how you can tie this together with production, and we mainly talked about master production scheduling, also MRP, Material Requirements Planning. And now we're going to focus in on the interface here. And this is how operations, or production, that's really this is sometimes just called operations, ties in with the demand side, or the sales side. And this is mainly going to be the sales and operations planning process S&OP. We'll finish off this discussion in a later lesson, where we'll focus on the interface with the customer and how you collaborate. But for this lesson, we're going to focus right in here. So traditionally, this process has been very siloed. This isn't a real word, but it's used very often. If things are in a silo, that means they're kept separate from each other. So it used to be the business planning would be set up by the senior executives, they come up with their strategy. This would get fed to the sales team, and they would do their demand planning, their forecasting, and management to determine what they think they could actually sell. They would come up with a sales plan that would fit and be handed to the production planning team. They would take this as input, and then they would then determine what their capacity plan, their scheduling, and their management. You notice that this arrow is typically a one-way street. So you'd be handed the sales plan, and your job was to make sure you can produce what they think they can sell. This would then turn into a massive production schedule that everyone would tend to use to make those decisions of available to promise, or how much I can commit, things like that. And what we're talking about when we talk about an integrative process, a lot of the players are the same. We still have capacity planning and scheduling. We still have demand planning and forecasting. There's still some strategic planning for the business side, and there's still going to be an MPS, a Master Production Schedule. The big difference, though, is when the strategy comes down, it doesn't go to sales then production, or sales then operations. It's tied together, and they're met jointly. And so the plan comes down in sales and operations jointly try to understand what it is that can be done. So these feed out to those processes, and, again, we get the master production schedule. Now this might look totally trivial to you, if you haven't been an organization that's of a significant size. You don't need an S&OP process if you're your own company. Because you are sales, you are operations, you could meet with yourself, you don't need a process. But when companies get bigger, they get very much siloed, so you have a whole team here working on operations, the production, the transportation, supply chain, and then the whole marketing, sales team over here. And you have to force them to get together. And so what this S&OP, the sales and operations planning process, is a formal way to make that happen. And it provides visibility. So sales knows what operations is doing, what their capabilities are, and operations knows what sales expectations and what their capabilities are. So it's really a communication process. So what are we going to talk about in this lesson? We're going to cover three big things. I'm going to talk about aggregate planning, because this is the main tool that you want to use for communicating some of these decisions between sales and operations. We'll develop the model. We'll do an example with Dire Wolf. And then we're going to go into fundamentals of sales and operations planning and focus in on how you manage supply, how you manage demand, again, using some this aggregate planning models that we're going to develop. Finally, I'll talk a little bit about the process for actually implementing a sales and operations process within your firm. This is a huge literature, and there's a lot of other references out there that I could point you to as well, but we'll go over the basic steps. So let's get started.

## Aggregate Planning
So let's talk about aggregate planning. Whenever we talk any type of planning-- whether it's demand planning, or production planning, or anything in between-- we need to know what the horizon is. And so for aggregate planning, we're dealing with a three-month to 18-month planning horizon. However, we've already talked about a shorter planning horizon, and that's between now and roughly three months. Now the numbers that I'm giving for the timelines and for the time fences in the planning horizons are general, rough guidelines. Every company's going to be a little bit different, and I'll talk more about that in a second. But generally as I get closer to now, my schedule gets much more rigid-- I have fewer things that I can change. And so we've talked in the past about these three time fences that we have. From now to, say, 3 or four weeks out I might have a frozen time period, where for my master production schedule I can change nothing, it's frozen-- I'm going to produce exactly what's been demanded, what customers have reserved. There might be a period out, say, five to eight weeks where it's slushy, where I'm allowed to make some changes to the MPS-- say plus or minus 10%. And then there's a period after that where I'm able to make even wider range of changes. Now in this time frame I'm looking at planning SKUs or families of SKUs. So it's pretty detailed. And as I get closer, then I get more and more frozen. What we're going to talk about in this lesson is aggregate planning. And this is where it's from the roughly three-month to 18-month time period. And instead of modeling individual SKUs I'm going to look at aggregated volumes. I'm going to combine all those SKUs because I don't care about the mix yet, I'm trying to get some big planning things done. Why is this different from what we do for the master production scheduling? Well, I have other things that I can change-- I have different levers. For here, my only real lever is the number-- how much do I produce, does it go up, does it go down-- and shifting it a little bit between time periods. In this three to 18-month period I have a lot more levers that take more time to implement. I can hire people, I can fire people, I can decide to outsource-- so all these other things that we'll talk about in more detail in a second. But those are the things that are in this three to 18-month bucket. Then you can think of longer term-- and I arbitrarily said 18 months here, but it can be much longer or much shorter, depending on the company. And these are more long range-- or really longer range-- planning. And we had some examples of this earlier in this course when we talked about network design. We talk about network design, these are things you don't do for tomorrow-- I'm not going to do network design for tomorrow's flow because I've got to build facilities, they're dramatic changes. So as I'm further out I can make bigger changes because they take longer to implement. So I mentioned that these are all just general guidelines. And what companies want to do, they constantly want to shorten these time cycles. So for example, if I could move my frozen time fence for the master production schedule from four weeks to two weeks, that makes me much more agile. So while we have these fences, there should always be an effort to try to shrink them. Why? Because that makes me more agile-- I can respond to the market much faster. Now the other thing that changes is the units that I'm planning. For this shorter time frame it's very disaggregated and I'm looking at individual SKUs or families of SKUs. For aggregate planning, that 3 to 18 months, I'm looking at this aggregated volume-- I'm going to convert them into a unit that makes sense. And for longer range you use flow units. And we talked about this a long time ago-- whatever makes sense for your certain operation, whether it's tons, cubic feet, units, barrels, whatever makes sense, because you're making different decisions. So let's focus in on aggregate planning problem. So we're going to be given a forecasted demand over this planning horizon-- again, 3 to 18 months roughly. We're going to determine the production, the inventory levels, the workforce, how much do I outsource if I do it all, and the capacity levels. And I'm going to do this in order to maximize the firm's profit over that 3 to 18-month planning horizon. Now I have certain levers that I can change. So these are levers that I can adjust to maximize that profit. So I can change the production rate-- how much do I produce? Do I increase that or decrease that? My workforce-- do I make it bigger or smaller? Do I bring in seasonal workers? Overtime-- do I have my existing workers work longer? I'm going to have to pay them more, but that might be easier than adding or subtracting workers. Machine capacity-- can I improve the capacity of my equipment by having more go through it? Should I outsource to a contract manufacturer? Should I allow backlogs? Can I allow it to go short so that I catch up later on? Or on the other hand, should I build up pre-inventory ahead of the time when I need it? So these are the levers that we're going to focus on to determine how to maximize a profit over the planning horizon.

## Aggregate Planning Model Formulation
So let's see how we formulate the Aggregate Planning Model. It's going to be a linear program. I don't have any binary or integer variables. And it looks complicated, mainly because we have a lot of data. But it's actually not that big. There's only four classes of constraint, so it's not that bad. So let's talk through it. First, the decision variables. So what are the things we're trying to decide? Well, these are all the levers that we talked about-- the number of employees we hire, the number we fire, the total number we have each month. I is the inventory I have on hand each month. O_t is the amount of overtime hours I have planned that my workers will work. B_t is the amount of units I plan to put on backorder each month that's available to me. P_t is the amount that I'm going to produce or manufacture each month internally with my own resources. And C_t is going to be the amount that I outsource to contract manufacturing each month. Now, the objective function, I'm minimizing here-- I know we talked about maximizing profit, but let's start with just minimizing cost over the planning horizon, and we'll get to the maximization in a few minutes. But all I'm going to do is minimize the sum of those costs. So it's the working, the amount of employees I have, multiplied by the cost of employing each person on average. The amount that I hire each period, there's going to be some cost for hiring someone. Whether it's training or just recruiting, there is going to be some kind of cost. The same goes for the opposite, if I fire someone. If I lay someone off, there's probably severance or some kind of penalty that's paid. I can think overtime. If I have overtime hours, you're going to be paid more for overtime for those existing employees. I have a holding cost with the inventory, so in the dollars per unit per month. I can think of backorder. If I have any items on backorder, I will be charged a certain amount per month, like a shortage cost. And then for production, it's going to be multiplied by the cost of the materials. So what's the cost of the raw materials going into the unit times the number of units that I'm making-- again, with my internal resources? And then finally, the contract-- so this is the number of units that I outsource to a contract manufacturer, and that's multiplied by the c_c right here. And so we made an assumption here-- and you can modify this if you want, this is a very simple model-- that if I use a contract manufacturer, the materials are included in that cost. If it wasn't, then I would just add that in. But we're assuming that if I go to a contractor, that's the total cost-- materials, labor for them to do it. So that's the objective function. Now let's look at the constraints. There's only four. The first one is production capacity. So P_t is the amount that I'm producing each month, and that can't exceed the term H, which is the number of hours each employee can work per month, times the number of employees I have plus amount of overtime hours, and that's divided by this l. So this l is the number of hours required to make each item. So this sets the maximum amount that I can produce, and it's a function of labor. How much labor do I have available? Now, I might be able to do contract. This is just the limit of what I produce internally. So this is what I'm manufacturing. I also have an overtime hours constraint where the amount of overtime hours I plan for-- remember, this is a planning model-- can't exceed the amount of workers I have multiplied by the maximum number of overtime hours I'm allowing. So again, we're setting up a plan here. It might be if things are really hectic at the last minute, we go for unplanned overtime. But this is for planned overtime hours. Then I've got two constraints that should look kind of familiar to you. They're conservation constraints. So this first one is for workers. And essentially, it's saying whatever workers I have today, they have to be equal to what I had last month plus what I've hired minus what I fired. Now, I put everything over on the left-hand side so I can set the constraint equal to 0. But essentially, it's the same conservation type of constraint we've seen since the first week of this course. I have the same thing for inventory. So it's saying the inventory I have on hand today is equal to what I had last month plus what was produced plus what was produced with the contract manufacturer minus what was demanded and then minus what was back backordered the previous month plus what's being backordered now. Now, again, I put everything to the left-hand side so I could set it equal to 0, but it's saying the exact same thing. Now, you might want to think for a second about how I'm making those backorders work. Essentially, what it's saying is you need to take care of your back orders. You can't just forget about them. They're not lost sales, and so you have to keep track of those. And this is how we keep track. Now, you notice what we're doing here-- a lot of these decision variables, they're calculated. So for example, if I tell you how many I hire and fire each period, that's going to determine what my number of workers are, because I'm going to set my initial conditions. That's what these inputs are. But that's OK. So we'll talk about this when we show how we're actually solving this. But I wanted to point that out. So some of these decision variables are calculated based on the other ones. So we're going to work this problem. Here's the example. It's called the Dire Wolf Company, and they manufacture various pieces of equipment for winter sports-- snowshoeing, dog sledding, whatever. They have a single manufacturing facility located in Haight Ashbury in San Francisco. It supplies products across the world. While they have many different SKUs, for the purposes of aggregate planning, they've converted all these items into a common unit. And so this is going to be just units or items. And this is common practice. You don't want to plan for each individual SKU. We're getting rough aggregate planning here. The costs have also been standardized on that unit. And they want to set up an aggregate production plan for the next 3 to 18 months. We'll get into the details in a second. But the levers that we have to work is size of the workforce-- How much do I hire, how much do I fire each month? Overtime hours-- how much do I plan on employees working overtime? Do I allow backorders? What production level do I have with my internal resources, and how much do I outsource? So this is the example we're going to use, and we're going to solve this problem and use this for the rest of the lesson.

## Spreadsheet Formulation and Solution
OK. Let's solve the Dire Wolf problem in a spreadsheet. So this is our input data. And all that I have is the information for each of the inputs that we mentioned in the formulation-- the material cost per unit, the inventory holding cost in dollars per unit per month, cost of a stock out, cost of hiring, cost of firing or laying someone off, the number of labor hours required for each item produced, cost for each regular worker-- what their salary is, essentially, in dollars per month, overtime cost, outsourcing cost, all those basic costs. We also have some assumptions here. I'm assuming that workers work 160 hours per month. That's because I'm assuming four weeks per month and a 40-hour work week. I limit the maximum number of overtime hours that any employee can work. I set the starting and ending inventory so it just doesn't go to 0. I have some backlog, what I allow backlog to start and end-- typically, you're going to say 0. I don't want to start or end with backlog. And then, you might want to put some boundaries or limits on the workforce. I have what I'm starting with. And you might want to say, what do I want to end with? Now, what we're also showing here is the demand. And this is the demand over 12 months. And because of what they're making-- they make products for use in the winter-- their very high demand is during the winter time in the northern hemisphere. So it's pretty much September through February. Look at this low period in the spring and summer. So they have very high production and very low production. And this is the thing that's going to be a challenge for them, because the question is, how do I design the best production system and the best overall plan such that I can still meet this low demand in the spring and the high demand during the winter? Now, let's do a quick check here. What does it cost to produce an item if I do it all internally? Well, I know the material cost, so I know it's going to be the cost for each item is going to be $75 plus the cost of labor. Well, how much labor does it take? Well, we know that there's four. So there's four hours for each item. And I know each worker costs $2,400 per month. And I know they work 160 hours. So divide it by 160 hours per month. And things cancel out. The hours cancel out. So it's dollars per item. And these all cancel out. This ends up being 4. That goes away. It's about $60. So this is $60. So this means my labor cost is going to be $60. So my internal production cost is $135 per item. Just as a check, I wanted to see what outsourcing was, because if outsourcing was cheaper than that, then I probably wouldn't make anything. I'd have someone else do it for me. So just getting your handle around what we have with our data. All right. So how does this look like in the spreadsheet? Here's what we've got. This should look very familiar to you. Let me orient you. I've got my objective function up here in the top left, like I always do. And I'll explain it in a second. In my yellow, down here-- I'll circle it for now-- these are my decision variables. Every row from Row 23 to 34 is a month. So this is telling me the number of employees I hired, fired over time. Backlogged units, internal production, and outsourced for each month. Now, I have it set up that numbers I plug in here-- I didn't optimize this. I just assumed I'm outsourcing everything. I just plugged it all in there. So let's go back to the objective function. It's simply going to be the sum of what I have in Column E for these, because I broke it out so you can see what the costs are in each of the categories. Each of these, for example, this cost of outsourcing, is simply the sum multiplied by the relevant cost. In this case, it's the outsourcing. So I'm showing it in by each category. And the objective function is just summing them all up. Pretty straightforward. So the next constraint I have is the inventory one. So let's see what this is. So I'm here in February. So the available inventory I have in February is going to be equal to what I had available at the end of the month in January, plus what I produced internally in this month-- February, plus what I did by contract manufacture in February, plus what I backlogged-- because I'm allowing backlog. That's like having something available-- minus what I backlogged the previous time period. I have to make sure I cover that backlog. If I didn't, then it would be a lost sale. So that's the inventory, the amount of inventory I have available to me. Then, the inventory at the time of each month-- this is what I'm going to pay my holding cost on-- is simply going to be equal to what I have available minus what I actually shipped out to my customers. I've got my work force. And it's a balance equation. And so it's going to be equal to what I had in the previous month plus what I hired this month minus what I fired this month. Then, I've got a constraint on the maximum internal production. And you can see that this is going to be equal to the amount to the number of hours I'm planning for each employee to work, times the number of people I have actually working that month, adding in the overtime hours for that month. And I'm going to divide this by the number of units of labor required for each item. So I can't exceed that for my internal production. That's my capacity for my internal production, not my outsourced. Now, for my maximum overtime, this is going to be equal to the maximum I set this as an input for hours multiplied by the number of people I have working. All right. Oops. Yeah. So that's pretty much it. Set up. And so you have this available to you. You can take a look. It all works out. And plugging these numbers in should give you this same number-- $5,001,800. Now, I want to solve it. So I'm going to have a series of constraints here. First off, I have my objective function in Cell C2. My changing variables are just simply all of those ones that are in the yellow. Just all of these. And then, I have a series of constraints. The first one is making sure my inventory is above a certain minimum at the end of the last period. The next two constraints-- make sure I don't exceed a maximum or a minimum number of employees at the last period. The next one is really just an integer constraint that I put in for integer variables for the number of people I hire and fire. You don't need this. I have it in there so it comes out clean. But with the way the numbers work, it would work anyway. After that, you want to make sure your overtime doesn't exceed the maximum. You want to make sure that your ending backlog doesn't exceed the parameter you set. And then, you have the production capacity. And then, the last one is all making sure that your available demand meets what the customer is demanding. You're going to solve this with Simplex. Make sure you do not check the Ignore Integer Constraints. And you can just solve it. If you solve it, you should get this. OK? So let's talk about this. First, you can see what the price is. And this is obviously less expensive than if we used all of outsourcing, which we showed what the cost would be before. And I actually put in there and I figured out the average cost per unit, which is simply Cell C2 divided by the amount that I produce down here in Cell M36. So this objective function is the least interesting part of this whole spreadsheet. What's interesting is it's now telling me what to do in these decision variables. So I'm laying people off, it looks like, in month 3 and 4 as well as in month 12. I'm hiring people after that summer lull, hiring them in months 7 and 8. It looks like I'm working overtime the first and the very last parts of the year. And it looks I am still outsourcing some. Not as much as I was before, but I'm still doing some. And then, you can see what I'm doing for the internal production. So it looks like I'm producing heavily when there's a heavy demand. And I'm trying to cut down. How am I cutting down? Well, I'm letting people go. And then, when it picks back up again, I'm hiring them back. And so we put in how much did that cost. And we'll play with that in a little while. But look at what we're doing here. I'm producing, and it's changing dramatically. So this is known as a strategy. And we've seen this before. It's known as a chase strategy. I'm chasing the demand. My production level's fluctuating to meet that change in demand. I'm shrinking it down during the spring months to meet that shrinking demand. Now, what we'll do for the next segment is play with this and see how these changing parameters- How does that affect what I'm going to do?

## Planning Scenarios
So let's run some scenarios using the spreadsheet we developed for the Dire Wolf problem. And what we want to do is see how these levers change if I change the costs. So for example, if I change the cost of hiring or firing someone, what effect does that have? If I change the cost of overtime, the cost of outsourcing, things along those lines. Because the levers you use pretty much dictate the strategy. We talked about two types of strategy, the two extremes. One is the chase and the other is level production. And the chase, remember, is where I'm using whatever capabilities I have to produce exactly what I need that period, and that's kind of using my overtime, my outsourcing, my backlog, to adjust my production to chase, or match, my demand. The other strategy is that level production where I want to build and kind of keep it level and I'll use my inventory pre-built to kind of handle the demand fluctuations. So the strategy is pretty much determined by what levers that I use and those levers pretty much are determined by the costs. So we're going to do four scenarios, we want to pile one on top of the other, and I'm just going to use the optimization model. So the first scenarios where I cannot fire anyone. This is a very realistic situation in many cities, countries where you have very strong labor laws. Now I could adjust the model by restricting where no one can be laid off, but instead, what I can do is make it very expensive. So I made it a million dollars here and then I just solve the optimization. So we can see what the cost is, but that's, like I said, the least interesting part of the spreadsheet. What's interesting is it tells us what our plan should be, what our aggregate plan is. One thing you should notice right away-- workforce is very steady. Right? And we're not going to be hiring a lot of people because it's very expensive to fire them. The other thing you can see is the result of that, we have a buildup of inventory. When? We're going to keep that fairly constant so that during those spring months when the demand is low, we're going to have a lot of extra capacity there. So I'm going to build extra inventory ahead of time that I'm going to then use throughout the rest of the year. So you see that I keep my workforce constant, overtime periods are happening in periods 2 and 12 that I don't want to add more people so I'm going to bleed into three areas. First, I'm going to go into outsourcing. I'm going to outsource a piece of it, I'm going to backlog a piece of it, and I'm also going to use some overtime because that's a very heavy month, 2,800. That's one of my highest months. So you can see what we're doing here. The costs are dictating a mixed strategy of where I do some advanced production. I keep that production steady because it's so expensive for me to fire someone. Also notice that I'm under-producing in my production lines because if you look here, this is saying how much capacity I have and you'll notice that for each of these months, let's see here, for month five, I'm only producing 780 internally, but I have the capacity for more than that. I'm just choosing not to use it but I'm not going to fire anyone. So essentially this is like a slow down during that month. So this is what the model is saying if I had a situation where really can't let people go. Well what happens if we add to that where we can't outsource either? So not only are we very expensive for firing, I can't outsource. Now remember, we did a lot of outsourcing in the previous for one, we had 5,000 units that ended up being outsourced. So this is going to shift some things. First we're going to have slightly more people, we're gonna hire some people and I'm forcing it to go back down. That's why we have seven people being fired because I'm forcing that to happen. So at each, about a million dollars each, so this cost, realistically, would be about $3.975 million. So let's see what else is it doing? It's growing the workforce. I have to have a little more internally because I lost one of my levers. I'm not able to outsource because I made that really, really expensive. So look at the production. Very steady state. This is almost a forced level production because I took away two of the major things I can do to be flexible. I can't increase my amount of workers or decrease. I can't go to outsource. My only other options-- look at amount of overtime. Workers will love this. Right? You've got a lot of overtime hours. It's expensive, but that's the only way I can handle a lot of the demand. And also I'll be having to backlog amount. OK so this is the second scenario where I can't lay anyone off and I can't outsource. But now let's say overtime's expensive, so I'm making it more and more restrictive. So what is the result here? Well I'm going to produce as much as I can internally. My workforce has gone up so I'm hiring more and then again I'm forcing the firing at the very end because I have that set to 36. So we could actually take 10 million. This is closer to 3.8 million. And so what I've done is I've put a really high cost on overtime time in the outsourcing. So again I took another piece or lever they can use for flexibility, this overtime hours. So what's happening? I'm producing a lot more, I'm building up a lot more inventory, during these slow times that'll last me throughout the rest of the year and I'm utilizing this backlog, which is the only piece of flexibility that I still have left to me. So you can see that the inventory increased dramatically from the first ones. It's almost half a million dollars now. And that's the price you're paying by not having that flexibility to go do a chase strategy. Now here's one last one, and again I just layered it on. I can't lay people off. I can't outsource. Overtime's expensive. But I did make the manufacturing more efficient. What I did is here I changed it from 4 to 3.5. So the amount of time it takes in hours went from 4 hours per unit to 3.5. What did this do? Well the workforce grew but not nearly as much, because they're more efficient. So you can see how this would naturally reduce my need for workforce as you get more efficient. Think automation. Think better processes. As you do these kind of things, essentially your labor hours per unit, item produced, goes down. Some other things are production lines. Still saves very steady but notice that they're always at capacity. So they're staying steady state and you're keeping at exactly what you need. So they're being fully utilized. You're still building up inventory and using that but not as much as you were before. So these four scenarios, very quick, but what I'm trying to get you to see is the trade-offs in the balances. The optimization will make the trade-off based on the cost that you give it and so one way they we're messing with this and trying to trick and see what the effects would be at extremes is putting in these very high values or changing those values. You can see there's a lot of different options that you can try, but what I was trying to show is that the costs dictate the levers, and the levers dictate the strategy.

## Fundamentals of Connecting Sales and Operations
So now let's talk about the fundamentals of connecting the sales and operations. We've seen this chart before and we've kind of focused over on this side so far. We have the business strategy comes in then we talked about how do you have the sales and operations planning process. But everything we've talked about so far has been all about the levers that opps have, whether they determine how much inventory, how much production, all those kind of things. What we're gonna to do now is shift to the other side and talk about some of those demand side levers as well. But first, how does it all fit together? What are we trying to solve? Well there's really three big questions we're trying to figure out. We're trying to understand how I should change supply, how I can modify or meet demand by changing how much I produce, and what the mix is going to be. And interestingly the priority is matching supply and demand first, then that helps dictate the volume they're producing, and then finally determine what the mix is going to be between the SKUs. How much to make of what. The interesting thing when you talk about supply and demand, we talk about it being together, but you're really going to decouple them, because if you have supply problems or challenges, your levers match. They're different. Same thing with demand. Now it's very important to know what the impact is. So if I have a change in what I can produce for my supply, what is the impact on the demand, and vice versa. But the levers are done separately so you should almost decouple those to understand what you can and can't change. So we talk about balancing supply and demand. You can think about managing supply and managing demand. So let's review what we've done for supply so far. You really have two big categories. You can manage the capacity, which you are capable of producing, and then inventory, what I've already produced. And for this list for capacity, these should all look very familiar because these are all the levers that we just talked about in the Dire Wolf problem. I have workforce flexibility on hiring, firing, and using overtime. One example you see in practice a lot is seasonal workforces in retail and transportation, such as UPS and FedEx. They will hire a lot of seasonal workers to handle that holiday rush at the end of the year. Subcontracting an outsourcing is widely used and this is something that allows you to respond quicker to changes in demand and also, sometimes, the outsourced manufacturing could be cheaper than what you can do internally. Now we didn't talk about dual facilities but it's worth mentioning for a second. You might want to have two sets of facilities. One is specialized in making a certain product or certain category and it handles a stable flow and you make that as efficient as possible, but then, you've got a separate facility that handles peaks in different categories or different families, and it has to be flexible. Now it's more expensive per unit, probably, but you use this to handle those peaks across the different product categories. You can also think about product flexibility. If all my products are very modular, in that they use the same, say, base chassis, if it's auto manufacturing. Then that actually increases my capacity that I have to produce. Now the other major lever I have is inventory. We talked about pre-building but you can also think along the lines of common components or modularity here as well. If I have the same engine block going in many of my automobiles that I'm manufacturing, then I'm using risk pooling to reduce the volatility, because I have fewer parts going to more end items. So you can see how we've talked a little bit about these different levers that you have on the supply side. And the demand side, we haven't talked too much here so let's introduce some things. First, what are the objectives? What is the demand side, the sales marketing team doing? There are really three big things. First they want to grow the market. They'd love to make the whole market bigger because that would increase sales. Second, they want to steal market share from a competitor. So maybe the market size doesn't get bigger but the percentage that your company serves increases. And the third is maybe you want to shift the buying patterns. So in our example of Dire Wolf, the demand in the summer was very low. So maybe I want to do something to incentivize customers to behave differently. Buying in the summer months. Buying a higher quantity. Things along those lines. So the levers that they have are really related and it all comes down, essentially, to pricing. So if I have pricing, this is the way I can incentivize my customers. We've seen this before when we talk about discounts for order size. So I might have minimum order quantities, MOQs, and these are all things that incentivize me to buy more, to shift my buying pattern. I might increase advertising. So as I advertise more, not only does that help me grow my market share, that might also help me steal market share from other competitors. And these kind of come together in what's known as promotions. And promotions are the primary tool that a lot of manufacturers use, especially if I'm selling to consumers. So consumer packaged goods here, whether it's laundry detergent, anything along those lines, you see a lot of promotions. Now, what happens here, is I'm doing a price reduction over a shorter period of time. And so the question we're going to look at: If this is the levers that I have on the demand side, how does this impact my supply? Because that's what the S&OP process is really all about. How does what I do on one side impact what I'm doing on the other? So what we're going to do next is use the same problem, the Dire Wolf problem, and see how these demand levers can be integrated into the same process.

## Adding Demand Levers
Now let's add in some of those demand levers, instead of just the operational or supply side levers that we've seen so far. So what I have here is the same problem-- Dire Wolf 2. I've added in pricing. So what I've done here is I've put the price that the unit's sold for in each month. And what this does is changes my objective function. And so what I have-- it's a sum product of the demand each month, column M times the price each month, and then I subtract off the cost. So what I have here is total profit. So if I wanted to optimize this, I would be optimizing this objective function in cell C3, which is the profit. So therefore, I'm going to maximize it. Everything else pretty much stays the same. So the constraints-- the decision variables are still the ones in yellow. So not much has changed. And if I solve this, you'll see that I get the exact same solution that I had if I minimized cost. Now, why would that happen? Well, let's think about it. What have I changed? The only thing I've done is I've added in a price per month, and notice it's the same each month. So my costs are the things I'm going to minimize, because my revenue is pretty much set. So even if I said the price is $200 per, then the solution wouldn't change and the profit would get better. But the solution, itself, wouldn't change, because all we're doing is essentially minimizing the cost, because the revenue is constant. It doesn't matter from month to month. Now, what we're going to do next though is allow the demand side to change some things, and specifically we're going to look at price elasticities. So suppose that sales and marketing can estimate how the demand for these products will change if they change the price. So recall back from your economics days that the elasticity is essentially the change in the quantity as a percentage. That's my delta Q percentage divided by the change in the price as a percentage. So my number could be something-- might change could be a 5% over a 1%, right. So we would say if the price dropped by 1% then this would be saying that my volume would go up by 5%. So my elasticity, in this case, would be negative 5. And so all it's saying is if I drop the price a certain amount, or increase the price, how will the volume change the quantity. So if I just rearrange this, I can set up that Q_new equals q-old times 1 minus the elasticity times the delta of the price as a percentage. Remember delta simply means the change, right. So that would be Q_new minus Q_old over Q_old, right. Same thing for price-- it'd be the price of the new minus price of the old over the price of the old. And so this just standard form. And so all we're doing-- elasticity is pretty straightforward. It's just saying what the change is. And so for an example, in the data that I have, suppose my elasticity is negative 3. Why is it negative? Well, if I drop my price, my volume should go up. Does that make sense? So if it was all in the same direction, it'd be saying that if my price dropped, my volume would drop. And that doesn't make sense. That's very, very rare. So price elasticity with respect to the mean is usually negative. So suppose the elasticity is 3, and in period one my price drops from 180 to 162. That's a 10% decrease. And then I want to figure out what demand is going to do. So I'm just going to use this formula, which is just a restatement of the definition of elasticity. It's going to be the demand old, which is 2,800-- what the base demand is for that month-- times 1 minus, or actually plus, negative 3, that elasticity that I gave you, times negative 0.1. That's a 10% drop, and that gives you 3,640. So a 10% decrease in price increases demand by 30%. And so this is a way that you can use to estimate what the effect of a certain promotion or change in pricing will have on demand. Now, in my spreadsheets, I'm going to keep it simple. All my elasticities-- enter them as positive numbers, because my percent discounts are entering them as positive numbers. I could enter these as negative, enter these as negative. It's the same thing. But just to keep it simple, I'm going to enter these as positive. And I keep a little note here. And this is in the spreadsheet that we've attached for you. I keep a positive since the discount is positive. It has no effect. I could make them both negative. It has the same effect. All right. So what I want to do next-- well, let me show you are having a spreadsheet actually. So let's clean this up just a tad. There we go. So my discounted price in the spreadsheet is simply going to be what the price was, right. The base price in M15 is 180-- times 1 minus N2, and that's the discount in that month. That's this-- 10%. So what I've said here is you can put the discount up here in this N column and it will all ripple through. Now, the elasticity for the monthly demand simply is this equation, right. And I just put into the spreadsheet, and I use an integer function just so I wouldn't have pennies and things. It's just a rounding. So I go to the integer value of that. M2 times 1 plus M16, which is my elasticity, again entered as a positive number, times N2, which is the percent discount change. So all I'm doing is plugging this equation into this cell in column M23 down. So what I have here is now I have a way of tying things in, because what does a promotion do? It's going to increase the demand in that month. What is that going to do? That's going to mean I'm going to have to change some things in my operations. I might have to increase the number of hours, use outsourcing, maybe add more people. So changing the price ripples into the operational side. That's why the S&OP is so important. So we want to use this to determine when should I run promotions, how should I shape the demand, because that's what I'm doing here. I can do a very big discount and shape the demand for that month. How will this impact operations and do they lead to profitability? These are the kind of things we want to do using this very, very simple spreadsheet. So let's do a couple cases. So my first scenario is I'm going to run a promotion in January and February. So what I've done here in this-- I've discounted right up here for January and February, periods one and two. I do a 10%. Everything else is at 0. And so you see that ripple to the price, and that means the demand is going up. Here you should note I have an elasticity of 5, so I'm saying a 1% decrease in price increases the demand by 5% for that month. So I enter this in and then I just optimized it. I'm maximizing what's in cell 3, the profitability. And what do I end up with? Well, if I compare it to the previous one where I didn't have any sale-- promotions-- then I had at the sales volume increased by 13%. That's awesome, right. That make sense that the volume-- that's this total amount-- the amount I sell goes up, because I'm demanding more. That make sense. Revenue went up by 9% if you compare the revenue, what the price is paid for each of the units for each month. But look what happened to profit. Profit went down by 22%. Why? Why would profit go down? Well, look when I'm doing my promotion. The demand there is one of my highest months-- 2,800 in periods one and two. So why would I want to promote more. I'm already using a lot of extra outsourced and overtime hours. I'm just exacerbating things. So running a promotion doesn't always lead to higher profitability. It usually will lead to higher volume, but the question is does it make sense. Let me give you another example. Now I'm running it in periods four and five, April and May. And so what happens, I'm going to optimize it again. My elasticity is still 5 here. And you see that what this does, it ups the volume here in months four and five. So the net effect here is my volume went up 4%-- not that much. Revenue increased a little bit, but my profit increased 2%. And that's just comparing this cell to the previous. Why does this make sense? Well, remember this was dead time. Look at how low those volumes are. And before, I'd have to really either fire people right before that or I would have to do something to really cut my production down, but now I'm able to keep the production a little more steady. So what I've shown in these two simple, simple examples is that by changing the price by the discounts, if I know what the elasticity is or can estimate that, I can estimate what the change in the volume is going to be the demand. And that allows me to find what the optimal solution would be. And so it allows me to see what if sales change, what does operations have to do to make that successful.

## Monthly S&OP Process
All right. So far in this lesson, we focused in on the mathematics and the models of connecting supply and their operations and sales, or demand. What I want to do now in this last video segment is talk about the process itself. Now, I'm only going to talk about it in one segment, but that doesn't mean that it's not important. In fact, it's probably more important than the models that we developed. So the whole idea here is that the sales and operations planning process is known as a change management tool because what we're doing is we're changing the way the company has been operating. And instead of doing things separately, we're bringing them together. And so whenever you have people involved, it's always harder than the math. The people make decisions. The models don't make decisions. But having people together, it requires a different set of skills. And so sometimes this is referred to as hard and soft skills. Everything we've done so far has pretty much been on the hard side. By hard, I don't mean necessarily difficult. But they mean more quantitative and analytical. Soft skills deal with people, and how you manage people, and get people together because success for an S&OP process relies less on the optimization models and more on the soft skills of the people that are participating. Can you work with the other people from the other side of the organization? One of the things that is observed a lot and commented on is that the type of people that are in sales are not necessarily the same type of people that are in operations. They don't necessarily think the same. They don't have the same objectives. They're doing very different jobs. So the ability to work and understand how other people think is a critical soft skill that, to be honest, a lot of people in the supply chain don't have. We are more focused on those hard skills. But in this aspect, getting an S&OP process up and running and making it successful, that requires more people skills than any other process. So it also requires for the process that it's structured. It's not something you do ad hoc-- a little bit here, a little bit there. It has to have a formal structure. And it needs to be repeatable. You don't balance your supply and demand once every four years. This is something you want to do monthly. To make this process successful, you need to have top level buy-in. What does that mean? That means that the senior VPs of all the sales and marketing, people can make those decisions. And the senior VPs in the operations side, people can make decisions, are vested in this. They have to both be vested in it. If this is only operations or the supply chain talking to themselves, then it's worthless. It's a meaningless exercise. So you need to have top level buy-in from all aspects. You need to have bottom-level support. What I mean here is you can't make decisions at the top level unless you have the data. And it takes a lot of effort to have that. And so that's what I mean by that bottom-level support. People in this meeting need to have decision-making authority. They need to be able to make the decision based on the facts in the room. And you don't want to make this be a long, drawn out decision-making process where people just meet to meet. You want to make it so that things get decided. And this naturally requires trust from all the participants. And that's the hardest thing to gain. But you gain it by having this process that's structured and repeatable. So let me go through a very simple-- on paper anyway-- five-step process. And this was adapted from Wallace and Stahl. These guys pretty much wrote the book on sales and operations planning. And if you want to get more into the implementation side of things, I highly recommend it. So remember, the monthly S&OP process-- sometimes the executive S&OP process-- is a structured, repeated process, usually each month, where demand and supply activities are brought in sync. And it provides executives to have full visibility. And so the critical thing is up here at that executive meeting in step five, that people in that meeting have the authority to make decisions. So let's go through this really quickly, step by step. So the first step-- at the end of a month, within the next one to two days, very quickly, someone should be gathering the data, and understanding what was the actual demand of the last month, the supply, the inventory, the backlog, forecast error. What happened? And this takes a lot of time. And doing this in one to two days is daunting unless you get it worked into a standard process. Once this is done, this goes, next step, to demand planning. And what are they doing? They're developing a forecast. Now, depending on whether it's make-to-order or make-to-stock, there might be different ways they focus on this. But the idea here is to focus on the big customers that are driving the performance. And it's not just the statistical forecast. It's actually modified by what they expect-- any changes they see, any new products. So that's why we call it a management forecast. It's not just numbers out of the software. It's what their opinion of what the forecast is going to be, to include the assumptions that they made, because at the end of the day, they're going to turn this up to the next group. And you want to be able to give people not just a number, but why you came up with that number. That's why the assumptions make sense. Additionally, this will be not just in units, but also in dollars. So the forecast has to be in both areas. And when I say dollars, I mean financial. You need the financial terms as well as the units. Typically, forecasts are done in units. But to roll it up to see the impact, you also need to do it in dollars. Now then, when I say a first-pass spreadsheet, they do the first cut on understanding, for the next 12-month rolling period, what the forecasts are, what the demand planning is going to be, what the production planning, what the inventory is going to be. They make that first cut. And that, along with the basic information, gets passed up to the supply planning group. And what they do is they try to say, OK, does our current plan meet this forecast? That's the question. Does it meet that? Do we have the capability now to do this? And they try to understand their requirements plan, their capacity constraints, and see where they can and can't meet it, and what they need to do to try to meet that demand. Now, the next step is probably the most important. This is the pre-meeting. That's where you come together, not with the most senior executives, but the larger team. And you try to understand what works. This is a go/no go type of meeting. And you make recommendations on whether you need to make any changes. So for example, if everything comes out that your current plan satisfies all the demand that's been forecast, then that's easy. Stay the course. But if there's a conflict, if demand is higher in some area for some product families than others, you might want to shift production. So you might want to say, you know what? We're not going to satisfy demand for Category A. We're going to shift it to B. And so that's a decision that's going to be made. They're going to change the sales side, or they're going to change the operations side. And so you make the decisions here. And there may be recommendations to go forward. Now generally, a lot of the decisions are going to be made here. But if they can't, then you go up to the next level. And the tiebreaker really happens here at the executive meeting. And this is a short meeting. There should be two hours, several hours, where you're making the decisions based on all the pre-work that's been done. So you kind of teeing it up for that senior executive team to say yes, no, to decide on all the ties. Because at the end the day, you want to leave this meeting with decisions. You don't want to have to go back and say, oh, we need more data. Let's do this again. You need to have a process set up so that it works like clockwork because what you're doing here is you're combining two distinct sides of the company together and keeping them in sync. So like I said, if your company does not have an S&OP process, it's a difficult thing to put in place because the people from different sides of the organization are going to have to share. And it's a harder thing to get across. But once it's there, it serves as a great mechanism to really tie the company together, to having both the sales and the operations synced for that.

## Key Take Aways
OK. So what are the key takeaways from this lesson? We covered a lot of ground here. We started by connecting sales and operations. Remember what we're trying to do is design that information flow as it goes from my production into the customer-facing part of my organization. So we're connecting the sales team with the operational team. We talked about planning horizons and the typical planning horizon for this is in the 3 to 18 months. Kind of an aggregated planning model time horizon. We talked about time fencing. And the idea there is, as I move closer to now, I want to freeze more of my decisions. And as I get further away, I have more flexibility and variability in what I can change. But as you get closer, you change less and less. We talked about managing the supply side. These operational levers that you had. And they really boiled down to two big categories. You can change the capacity through modifying my workforce-- adding labor, taking labor away, seasonality, season-based labor, overtime, outsourcing. These things add capacity. Or you can adjust inventory. Do I pre-build my inventory ahead of time? Do I make it more modular? And the other side, I've got demand levers for the sales side of things. And really, generally, it all boils down to price. How does price change as an incentive? Does it cause me to increase my market share? Increase the whole size of the market? Or does it shift a buying pattern? And what the sales and operations planning does, it tries to balance these. If I make and I use one of these sale levers, how does that affect things? And do I have to do something over here to enable that that can happen? And so that's what the S&OP planning process is. And so it's a structured set of meetings. It requires top and lower level buying and support. And what it really does, it forces joint decision making. And so you provide visibility into both sides of the organization-- the sales side and the supply or operational side. And then it forces you to make those decisions. So altogether, we tried to get across in this lesson is that the difficulties and the challenges and the levers that you have to meet those two needs-- the sales side and the operation side. All right. So if you have any questions or comments or suggestions, please use the discussion forum.
