# week01 recitation optimization python

(SC2x video lecture transcript)

## Video 1 - Solving Part 1
CONNOR MAKOWSKI: Hi, there. Welcome to the recitation on the Blink22 problem. This is the first part where we'll be covering the initial cost formulation. My name is Connor Makowski. So I'm actually going to be referring to the Blink problem, like I mentioned. And if you're not familiar with it, I would recommend that you pause the video and then take a second on this right-hand side to read what's happening in this problem and to understand, and start to think about how you would actually want to formulate this on your side. So go ahead and pause now, and then come back when you've done that. So the idea here is we are going to be fulfilling demand in three different regions and we're going to be doing that by shipping products from two different assembly plants to each one of the regions. And there's an associated distance of that. We'll also notice that for each mile that we transport, we're going to have $0.12 cost. So this isn't an exact cost matrix, but it's something we can use to create a cost matrix. So now that we have an idea of what's going on over here in the right-hand side in our problem, we're going to go over here to our Google Colab notebook and we're going to start looking at what's going on. So as I get started, I want to first install the scx package. So I'm going to click Run there. That's going to go ahead and create a runtime for me and then start installing that package for me here accessible in Colab. Now if you're doing Python on the side and it's not in Colab, you don't have to do this each time. This is just a Colab-specific item. Now once that installs, we're going to go ahead and be able to import from the package, so from this scx package, we can import the model from the optimization subpackage. So I'm going to hit Run here. That'll essentially wait for this to finish, and when that's done, it'll run that code. And that will allow us to keep working a little bit down further. So the first thing we want to do is we want to think about how we're going to get our data into Python. There's a couple of different ways to do it. In general, a lot of optimization packages require tabular form that's going to be like a list of lists. Or in our case, we're actually going to be doing a list of dictionaries. That's a very common data format as well. And so you can see here we have a transportation matrix and that's going to be actually a list of dictionaries. So how do we want to think about this? We actually need to think about it in terms of our distance matrix. And so you can see here we have from each assembly plant to each region. And so let's think about it in terms of the assembly plant is going to be an origin and the region is going to be our destination. And so in a dictionary format, we could put our origin name equals A1, so assembly plant one, and our destination name equals R1, or region one. So we can say from origin name A1 to destination name R1, our distance is going to be 105 miles. So we can say 105. So that's how we're going to put our data in. As you can see, I prepopulated this transport matrix. And this, again, is just a list of dictionaries. The other thing you'll notice is that we're actually going to be putting in this cost per mile. That's going to be $0.12. Now in theory, we could actually multiply this distance of 105 by $0.12 and that could give us $12.60. And we could input that directly, or we can compute that later. And that gives us some more flexibility as we try to expand our model in the future. If you know your model is not going to be expanded much, it's pretty safe just to make that beforehand. If you don't, it might get expanded. It might be better just to leave it and expand that, or to multiply this out in some future code. So going on, you can see we do for each assembly plant to each region, we go ahead and create the same exact structure where we have our distance and our cost per mile. Once we get through all of our distance matrix items, you can see here that we actually want to represent a demand matrix. Now following the same structure, we can actually say our demand in units at each region. And what is this? We have a list of dictionaries and we know that our demand name is going to be R1. So that's going to be the exact same name we're going to be referencing up here in our transportation matrix. Our demand name is R1. And we can see what the demand would be. So the demand is going to be 2,500. And so for each region over here on the right-hand side, we are going to put in the demand. And so we can populate out matrix or matrices that allow us to do this in a pretty simple format. And you can see, again, this list of dictionaries gives us a similar format we can have for both of our demand matrix as well as our transportation matrix. And that does tend to keep things a little bit simpler in how we want to manage the code structure in the future. Now again, there are multiple ways to put this in, and you can explore your own way. This is just the way that we are going to be using as our standard way moving forward from our side. So once we have that transportation matrix, we actually want to calculate the cost for each actual arc from A1 to R3, what's the actual cost. We also want to create a variable that can store the amount that we flow on that arc. So we're going to say for t in transport, let me go ahead, I'm actually going to run this real quick. And then as we get down here, we can save for t in transport, we're going to create a decision variable for each item. So we're going to say we're going to create an amount variable. And that amount variable is actually going to use that imported model. Remember that model that we imported way up at the top? It's going to use this. And it's going to create a variable for us. We're going to say model.variable. And you can find documentation on this in the link below the video. There should be a link to the xcs package as well as some of the technical docs. And so you can see when we initialize a variable, we need to provide a name as well as possibly a low bound. And so in this case, our name is going to be an f string, that's going to be this long string. And what we're going to say is for t in transport, so the origin name of our transport item, so that origin name might be A2. Then our destination name, that might be R3 amount. So when we create this variable, it's going to be named A2_R3 amount. And then the next thing we're going to do is we're going to specify a low bound. And essentially, this is just something that exists in the package, in scx modeling package that allows us to say this is the lower bound for our variable. And then we don't have to add a constraint for it later. This just automatically adds a constraint saying it must be greater than or equal to 0. Now the next step we want to do is actually calculate that cost variable we mentioned earlier. And so that cost variable is actually just going to be t cost. So for each item in transport, the cost variable is going to be distance times cost per mile. That'll just give us our cost variable. So let me go ahead and I'm going to actually add a new cell below this and we can print what this is actually going to look like. And so I'm going to print T-R-A-N-S-P-O-R-T, transport, and I'm going to print just the first item. So that's going to be transport 0. So print that first item in that list and we'll see what we've changed. So you can see we have an origin name, a destination name, we have a distance, a cost per mile, and you can see these new variables we just added. So we have an amount, and that's going to be A1_R1 amount, remember we named it that. And then our cost is going to be that multiplied distance times cost per mile of $12.60. So you can see here that we've properly formulated this into our transportation matrix. So I'm going to go ahead and delete this cell. And as we move forward, I'm actually going to go ahead and I'm going to pin this cell to the side of our data cell so we can access that and see it later. So now as I get to my_model, I want to start thinking, what do I want to do here? Well, I'm going to initialize a model object. And to do that, I'm going to call the model. Remember we had here model.variable. I'm going to call just model by itself. And in parentheses, I'm going to put a name and a sense. So the name is going to be what do I actually want to call this model and the sense is going to be whether I want to minimize or maximize. So in this case, my_model equals Blinky22, and I'm minimizing it. And when I'm working on that, I need to add an objective function. So if I have my_model's what I called it. If I go down here, I can say my_model dot add objective. So I'm calling the function or the method called add_objective. And that takes a single input called fn. So that's going to be the function. And that function is actually going to be a subfunction of model called model.sum. And so inside of my_model item, I can actually create a sum, and that's going to be the sum of this list item. So it's going to be t amount, so the amount that I choose to flow, times the cost of each item for t in transport. So you can see here this is actually a list comprehension. So I'm saying t amount times t cost for t in transport, and that'll just automatically populate that full list of my transportation matrix times my cost. And then essentially, like I said, I'm summing that up. So my objective is the sum of those items. Now that is a little bit complicated, but as you get used to list comprehension in Python, that should make more and more sense as you move forward. And ideally, we'll try to keep those fairly simple. Some of the ones we get into later might be a little bit more complex with if statements, and we'll get into those shortly. So moving on, you can see the next thing we need to do is add constraints. And so the main constraint that we have to add here is we need to make sure we're satisfying all of our demand. And so how do we do that? We're going to say for each item, so each d in demand, we are going to go ahead and say my_model.add_constraint. So we're going to call an add constraint method on my_model. And that's going to take in two parameters. That's going to take in a name parameter. And so we're going to use a f string here. And then it's also going to take a function parameter. So let's start with the f string. So we're going to say for d in demand, I'm going to have my demand name demand. And so in this case if my demand name is R1, I'm going to call this R1_demand. And then what is the function of this constraint? So the function of this constraint is actually going to be the sum of all of this. Let me see if I can highlight all of it. Exit out of this cell real quick so we can get this better. So the sum of all of this here. And what we're going to say is the sum of all of this has to be less than-- or, sorry, greater than or equal to my demand. So we're saying the sum of the amount that we ship has to be greater than the demand. There's going to be some caveats here, and we'll add those here in a minute. But remember, this is only for, in this case R1 or R2. And so what are we going to do inside of this sum function? We're going to have another list comprehension item. And what we're going to say is the amount that we transport for t in transport, so we're going to have that. So the amount we transport for t in transport if the destination name equals our demand name. So essentially, from assembly plant one to assembly plant two-- or into assembly plant two, we ship two things to region one. So if the destination name is R1, or region one, we're going to include that. So all the amounts we ship here on these two lanes are going to be included when demand is region one, again, because we have this function here, if destination_name equals demand name. So we have this d. So if our transportation destination name equals our demand name, we're going to include that. And so take a little bit of time and really try to understand what's happening here. This is a really important component of what's going on in our optimization model. So now that we've got that, we're actually going to do that for each item in demand. So for region one, two, and three, we're going to create a new constraint. And then what we're going to do is we're actually going to solve that. So if I go ahead and I run this, you can see that I've run it, and I've solved it, and it's gone really, really fast. It's in 0 seconds, according to computer time. So if I think about this, before I actually look at my solution, I want to just make sure that my_model looks good. And one way you can do that is by calling my_model.show_formulation. So remember we initialized my_model, this model object, and we're going to say show_formulation. So if I run that, you can see here that we've created a really nice formulation piece. This has to do with the way that we use our package, which is the scx package, as well as some of the underlying packages like pulp and how that gets compiled together. And so you can see we want to minimize the cost of A1 R1 amount times the cost to ship it plus this next one, which is going to be the A1_R2 amount. And we do that for all of the items in our matrix and we're going to subject that to those named constraints, remember R1 demand. And we're going to say our A1_R1 amount plus our A2_R1 amount is going to be greater than or equal to 2,500. Now I want to make a quick note here. In some cases, we might actually say this is actually just going to be equal to 2,500. Since we're minimizing cost, we'll never actually ship more demand than we have to. But there are points where you might say I want it to be greater than or equal to if I'm doing integer programming, because of the way some of this multiplies out you can't actually have an exact equality here, because you have to ship batch sizes of a certain amount you have to meet all your demand that way. So in general, you can do equals equals if you're doing a linear programming. But if you start going into integer programming, you might want to shift over to a greater than or equals to when you're minimizing. So start thinking about that. But those are fairly arbitrary, and it kind of depends on the problem in the actual business case. But those are just some notes there. So moving on, we've solved our model, we're looking at our formulation. How do we actually look at the outputs? That's pretty simple here. We can actually call the my_model.show_outputs method. So I'm going to call that. I'm going to run that here. And you can see here that we've generated our outputs. And so you can see our objective function is 136,506.72. And you can see how much we're actually shipping off of each item in our distance matrix for each item in our transportation matrix. You can see the assembly one to region one. You can see we're shipping 2,500 units. You can see that for all items in our transportation matrix. So that is a very brief introduction into the scx package for the Blink22 problem. I hope you enjoy learning from this package and enjoy learning Python. Thank you.

## Video 2 - Solving Part 2
CONNOR MAKOWSKI: Hi there. Welcome to part two of the Blink problem. My name is Connor Makowski. In this recitation, we are going to be extending the Blink problem to change over from minimizing cost to maximizing profit. And so you can see over here on the right-hand side, we have an updated problem statement. And the idea here is we make $45 in revenue per unit and we are going to define profit as revenue minus those transportation costs. So over here on the right-hand side, you can see-- or sorry, on the left-hand side, you can see I have an exact copy of what we had created for the initial problem. And I'm going to go ahead, I'm going to rename this. I'm going to call this actually P2, so for part two. And then I am going to start running some of this code. So I'm going to do the same thing we normally do. We're going to install the scx package and we're going to import the model from the scx.optimize. And what changes do we need to do to incorporate revenue? We can go ahead and we could actually put revenue in each item in this transport matrix. But probably more appropriately, there's a simpler way to do this. And so in this case, let's think about where we would put that. We would probably do that when we are doing some of this processing down here for t in transport. So again, this is that copy of what we covered in the previous video. And so we are just extending that. So I'm just going to run this transportation matrix and we are going to generate that data just like we previously did. We're going to have our same demand matrix. But what we're going to do is for each t in transport, let's go ahead and instead of calculating the cost and optimizing for cost, we are going to go ahead and optimize for profits. We're going to say, calculate the V-A-R-I-A-B-L-E, the variable profit. And in doing this, let's go ahead and think about what that profit would be. And again, we defined that as revenue minus transportation costs. So I'm going to say t bracket profit equals t bracket cost. Remember, we just calculated that above. And that's actually going to be 45 minus. So we're going to say our profit is 45 per unit minus our transportation cost. So that is about, I think, all we need to do there. So I'm going to go ahead and run that cell. Now we'll be calculating our profit for each item in our matrix. And then essentially we're going to go down to our model and we will call-- this model is going to be named Blinky 22_p. Let's just call it P2, Blinky22P2. And instead of minimizing, since we're maximizing profit, we want to switch this over to maximize. So now we are maximizing profit in terms from our model perspective. Now how do we do that? We have to update our objective function. Right now, the amount that we're considering is actually going to be the amount times the cost. We really want to change that from cost to profits. So we're going to say our objective function should be the amount times the profit for each item in transport and we're maximizing that. So let's go ahead and call this P-R-O-F-I-T. And that just matches that variable we created up here. Let's think about what else we might need to consider in this. Well, in our demand constraints, what we're saying is we have to meet or exceed all of our demand. And if that's the case, we'll actually ship a lot more products than we can actually sell because we'll ship a lot more products assuming that we're going to sell them than we actually have in our demand. And so this is a point in time where you might say, hey, actually I'm going to go and say this is going to either equals-- so I'm going to say the sum of the amount has to equal my demand. And again, that's because this is linear programming. Now to expand this a little bit further is in terms of a profit function, let's say there is a particular lane that actually doesn't make sense for us to ship. We actually lose profit on it. And in our business sense, or our business case, we might say, well, we shouldn't actually ship products we lose money on. Let's go ahead and just not meet that demand. And so we might actually say that is going to be less than or equal to demand. So if I'm maximizing profit, I'm going to push it as far up as I can, but I might not be able to meet all of my demand. So there's just some thoughts there on what you might want to do. In this case, let's just say the amount-- oops. That needs to be a less than. The amount that we're transporting when the destination name equals our demand, or our demand region name, we're going to say that has to be less than demand, less than or equal to. And so we can actually maximize our profit. But if some product doesn't, again, make profit, we won't actually ship it. So we might not meet all of our demand in this instance. So let's go ahead and-- that's the consideration we're going to have here. Then we're going to go out and we're going to solve this model. So I'm going to go ahead and click here and say, my_model.solve is the last thing I want to do. I'm going to run that. And once that's run, we can go ahead and rerun our show formulation code. What we can see here is our new formulation. And we can see that we are maximizing profit. So this is going to be a 32.4. So that's going to be the 45 minus the 12.6. So 45 is our revenue minus our 12.6 in transportation cost. We're going to say the amount that we ship here is going to be-- that's how much we make off of all the product shipped on that lane. And we can go ahead and do that for all of our lanes in our transportation matrix. And we're going to subject those to our updated constraint where the amounts that we ship are going to be less than or equal to our demand. So we can meet up to our demand. So it looks like that's a pretty good formulation. I'm pretty happy with that. Let's go down here and let's look at what our outputs are. So we're going to update this and call my_model.show_outputs with our new outputs. And it looks like we are going to be creating $320,063.28 in profit. So if we want to, we can go ahead and run a quick check on that. So I'm going to go ahead and copy that. I'm going to paste that over here in the question, which is what is our maximum profit? I'm going to go ahead and submit that. And it looks like we've done a good job because we got it right. So that is some extensions that you can do to switch over from cost to profit. As you begin working on that, you have to think about some of those considerations, like are there constraints that need to change? What do we need to change in our objective function, and how do we get that data into our matrices? So I'd encourage you, as you go through some of the problems in the classes, to really think about those different items and how you might make those changes, and really try and understand what's going on there. Anyway, this is the Blink problem part two. I thank you very much for your time.

## Video 3 - Solving Part 3
CONNOR MAKOWSKI: Hi there. Welcome to the Blink problem part three. My name is Connor Makowski. And in this recitation, we are actually going to be disregarding what we did in part two and we're going to be jumping back to part one, and we're going to start working from the end of part one. And so the reason we're doing that is because we are-- as part of our problem statement, we can see that we are agreeing to disregard our profit maximization approach and we're just going to switch back to a pure cost minimization approach. So I'm going to go ahead and create a copy of that initial part one, and I'm actually going to call this one P3. And so now I have a new notebook. I'm going to be-- this is a clone of that initial notebook, and we are going to be considering this problem. And so the idea in part three is we have a disruption in our supply chain, and for some reason we don't have enough capacity at our plants, or at least we have some restrictions on capacity due to some part shortages. And so assembly plant one can only produce 13,000 units of our Blinky22 product, and assembly plant two can only produce 3,500 units. And so we need to adjust our model and we want to consider this new information, and then we're still going to try to minimize that total transportation cost. So let's go ahead and start thinking about what we need to do to edit that. So to get started, we're going to go back over here to our left-hand side. I'm going to run the standard install of the scx package. I'm going to run the optimization or importing of the optimization model. And finally, I'm going to start thinking about what I need to do to incorporate this new information. So we can see here, we need to actually add some information specific to our assembly plants. So we probably wouldn't put that in our transportation matrix. That wouldn't make sense because it's not unique to each item in this transportation matrix, it's unique to each assembly plant. So we'll scroll down and think a little bit more. But we also probably wouldn't put it in our demand matrix because it has nothing to do with demand, it only has to do with our assembly. So it seems like we're going to need to create a new matrix. So let's go ahead and we'll create a new matrix, and we are going to call that assembly, A-S-S-E-M-B-L-Y, assembly. And our assembly matrix is actually going to be a list of dictionaries, just like we normally do for our data structures. And that is going to be-- let's see if we can't think about what that's going to be. So we need to create the name, and we can do it just like we do the demand. So if it's demand, we're going to say name is R1, and that's going to match exactly our names that are specified in our transportation matrix. So for our assembly, we're going to say name. And that's going to be a colon, because we're in a dictionary. Name is going to be A1. So our name is A1. We're going to have a comma because we're in a dictionary again, and we're going to do another key. And that key is probably going to be something to do with the limitations that we have over the capacity. So in this case, let's just call that limit, L-I-M-I-T, and our limit is going to be for A1. We can see that limit is 13,000 units. So we're going to say 13,000. So we now have the item for A1. Let's go ahead and do the same thing for A2. I'm going to copy that and I'm going to paste it. I'm just going to change my name to be A2. And my limit for A2 is going to be 3,500 units. So our assembly plant two has a limit of 3,500 units. So it looks like I've incorporated all of the primary data that I need to import for my model. So I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to run this cell here that has all of my matrices. Now going down, I don't really think I need to adjust my transportation. Really what I need to do is add a new constraint. So I'm going to go ahead and run my transportation matrix where I'm generating that amount and that cost, just like we did in part one. And finally, I will get to our modeling part. So I'm going to call this-- my model is actually going to be Blinky22P3. I'm still minimizing, so that looks good. I'm going to go to my objective function. I'm minimizing the amount times the cost for each item. That still looks good. My standard demand constraint still looks good. I'm actually going to exceed, or equal all of my demand. So what do I need to do? I actually need to add a new constraint. And I'm going to call this my supply constraint, or maybe I'll call it my assembly constraint. Let's go ahead and call it supply, S-U-P-P-L-Y, so my supply constraint. And what do we want to do? Let's just think about it in terms of one of our supply items first, and then we'll add a for loop around it. So I'm going to say I want to add a constraint. So my_model.add_constraint. And when we add constraints, the first thing we need to do is provide a name and a function. So go ahead and say, my name is going to be equals f is an f string. And that is going to be, let's go ahead and say s name. So I'm going to say for s in supply, or for s in-- or for a in assembly, maybe. And that's going to be a name. Remember, so we named that name my assembly name. And I'm going to probably say underscore underscore A-S-S-E-M-B-L-Y_S-U-P-P-L-Y, so my assembly_supply. So I'll close out that f string. I'm going to go to the next item I need to input and that's going to be my function, fn. And that is going to equal-- so it looks like Google Colab adds some helpful things. So if you are struggling here, it should provide some help from time to time. Sometimes that can get in your way. And so we can see here's the documentation that we have. And so you can see the function. So this method, add_constraint, has those things. It has some different helpful hints in there to help you fill out what's going on. So I'm going to actually say that's going to be a model. I'm going to say that's going to be the sum that's going to be less than or equal to a bracket limit. So I just need to fill out what's going to go in this sum. So let's start thinking about what this would look like. So let's go and we'll copy our demand constraint. We can start thinking about what we would do here inside of our assembly constraint, or our supply constraint. So we need the amount of each item in transport, so that seems right, if the destination name equals demand name. Actually, this isn't going to be the destination, this is going to be the origin name, because this is if it's coming from our supply. So we're going to say if t o-r-i-g-i-n if the t of our origin name equals, and we're going to change this from d, because that's demand, remember, to a for assembly if our origin name equals our assembly name. So that actually looks pretty good to me. So we actually have this list. We're saying if the item origin name equals the assembly name, then we're going to say we want to include the amount of that, the sum of all of those amounts have to be less than the a, so the assembly limit. Let's go ahead and I'm going to tab this out. And inside of that, I'm actually going to add a for loop. So just like I did with my demand. So I want to say for a in-- for a in assembly. Is that what I called that up here? Let's go ahead and-- yeah. So for a in assembly, I'm going to add that constraint. And that constraint is going to be named the assembly name underscore underscore assembly_supply. So that looks pretty good to me. So I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to run this. I'm going to see if everything checks out. Oh, it looks like I have a syntax error. So in this case, it looks like my f string has some issues. You can see it's pointing to right here, the assembly name. And I can look up and I can see what's going on right here. It looks like I'm using single quotes with single quotes in my f string. So I'm going to go ahead and just change those to double quotes. This is a little debugging here. So I'm changing those from single quotes to double quotes, so inside of it I can actually use single quotes. And you can see again that's what we're doing up here as well. That was just a typo on my part. I'm going to go ahead, I'm going to run that again and see if everything checks out. And it looks like we don't have any errors. We have a green check there. So let's go ahead and let's see what our formulation looks like. Let's see if that makes sense to us. So we have our standard minimization that should be exactly what we saw before. We're subject that to our demand, and those should be the exact same demand constraints we had before. But we're adding some new constraints. Remember this is the f string, the assembly name, and then the supply. So our A1 assembly supply, and that constraint just says anything that comes out of assembly plant one, so these three are all the A1 to one of the regions. And the sum of all of those has to be less than our constraint of 13,000. You can see that we do the same thing for assembly plant two. And so those all look good. It looks like we've put this in a way that the models understood well, and it's formulated properly. So we can go ahead and let's check out our outputs and see if we've done this correctly. Let's go ahead and we'll see our outputs. So we've got $148,746.72 in costs. Let's go ahead and let's copy this over, and plug it into our x input box. And when I go ahead, I can look at this and I can say I'm going to submit that, and let's see if we're good. It looks like we've done it right. All right, so this one was a little bit complex. Remember, we went ahead and we added some data in our matrices. We added an assembly matrix, or an assembly list of dictionaries, and then we just added some supply constraints to make sure that those limits were met, appropriated to each assembly plant. So everything that left that assembly plant had that limit appropriated to it. So that is part three. I do thank you very much for your time.

## Video 4 - Solving Part 4
CONNOR MAKOWSKI: Hi there. Welcome to part four of the Blink problem. My name is Connor Makowski, and in this recitation, we are going to be expanding the model a little further. In this problem, or in this part of the problem, we are going to be adding a distribution center. So you can see over here on the right-hand side, we're adding a distribution center, and the transportation cost from assembly plants to this distribution center is $0.04, and from this distribution center to regions is $0.08. So essentially we're going now instead of from assembly plants directly to regions, we now have a distribution center in the center. So it's assembly plants, distribution center, regions. And then we're going to note that this DC cannot keep any inventory. It's also important to note that the dc cannot produce inventory. It can't make new products. They can only come from those assembly plants. Let's go ahead and let's look at what's going on here. We have a table of the amount of miles from the assembly plant to each dc, as well as from the dc to each region. So let's go ahead and let's look at our transportation matrix. Over here on the left-hand side, first we'll install our scx package and import our model like normal. And then as that's running, we'll go down and we'll start thinking about our transportation matrix. Now the important thing to note here is we might consider having two different transportation matrices. Now that is possible sometimes in problems, especially using a tabular format. That might be something you have to do, is actually do two different transportation matrices because we're using a list of dictionaries in the way that we're using the constraints we have, we can actually get away with keeping these all into a single transportation matrix. So in this matrix, I'm going to say from origin name A1, to, instead of region one, we're going to call this DC1. We're going to say that distance is 190 miles. So instead of 105, 190. And that cost per mile, instead of being $0.12, is actually going to be $0.04. So 0.04. I'm going to go ahead and I'm actually going to copy this item, or this dictionary, I'm going to paste it right over the one below it. And instead of being from assembly plant one on this one, I'm going to change that to assembly plant two. And that dc distance is actually going be 150 miles, 1-5-0, and the cost per mile should be the same. Now moving down a little further, we can see that we have-- the next we're going to actually have is from distribution center to each region. And so now the destination_name used to be DC1. Now we're going to make that our origin name. So DC1 is our origin. And then the destination is actually going to be region one, so R1. And the distance from DC1 to region one is 15 miles, 1-5, and the cost per mile is actually going to be-- what is it? $0.08. So 0.08. I'm not going to copy that. And then I'm going to go ahead and just delete all of these other ones below. And we'll just start adding in the ones that are relevant for us now. So from DC1 to region one, we also have to have a link from DC1 to region two, DC1 to region two. That's going to be 59 miles, 5-9, and that's going to still be the same cost per mile of $0.08. And finally, we'll have to region three. And that is going to be 79 miles. So we are on 79 miles there. So our new transportation matrix seems to be set up. We'll go down and we'll look at our next matrices. Our demand matrix, nothing changes there. Our assembly matrix, nothing changes there. But to be consistent, because we're actually mapping out all of our demand regions as well as our assembly plants, let's go ahead and we'll create a distribution center item. So let's think what we want to call that. Let's call that distribution_center, D-I-S-T-R-I-B-U-T-I-O-N underscore C-E-N-T-E-R. And that's actually going to be a list of dictionaries, just like our other data structures. And inside that dictionary, let's just go ahead and have a name. We'll call that DC1. Again, that matches exactly what we're using up here in our transportation matrix. So now, if our distribution_center is going to be named DC1, we might eventually want to add more data to this. We'll add the data for maybe fixed costs, or some limitations. For now, I'm just putting it here so we actually have something that we can have as a steady state. We can keep our constraints similar to how we used to have our constraints. Now if we wanted to, we could get clever and maybe do a brand new constraint just for this one dc. For simplicity, I want to actually try to keep it this way where we're going to have a distribution center that's mapped out here. So let's move forward and let's actually run this now that we have all of our matrices in it. Looks like that ran properly. Let's go ahead and we'll run everything to generate our transportation items. So I'm going to say let's run this. Let's actually think real quick if we need to add anything here. The cost is actually going to be the distance times the cost per mile. And since we actually added the cost per mile, that was different for our different arc types. So from DC1 to region, we have $0.08, and from assembly plants to dc, we have $0.04. So that cost should still be correct right here. So we're going to have the distance times the cost per mile, and then the amount we actually want to know how much we're flowing on each arc, that actually shouldn't change as well. So I think we're good with our transportation matrix finally. So let's start thinking about what our model is going to be. So let's go ahead-- this model is actually going to be Blinky22 let's call this P4. And we're still minimizing. We're minimizing our cost. Let's think about our objective function. It's still going to be the amount we have on each arc times the cost of that arc, even if those are different types of arcs. Maybe that inbound to our dc, as well as the outbound from our dc. So this actually should still be correct. We're minimizing this function. So that looks good. Let's think about our demand constraint here. So for each item in demand, we want to make sure that the amount that we flow in our transportation is less than the demand, and that's less than the demand if the destination_name equals our demand name. Well, that makes sense. So the only time we would do this is if it is region one, region two, or region three, because we're looping over our d in demand. So in this case, we shouldn't have to change anything here as well. So that looks good. Let's go ahead to our supply constraint. And for each a in assembly, we want to see if our assembly supply changes. So we just want to make sure that the sum of each item in transportation, if the origin name is assembly, so only if the origin is assembly, that needs to be less than our assembly limit. And that seems good, remember, because the only time that anything would have an origin of our assembly plant is if it is our assembly plant, and anything leaving it has to match in that assembly limit. So this supply constraint should still hold, even with our new matrix structure, our new transportation matrix structure. So what do we need to add now to really make this work? Well, it turns out there's an important note here that the dc cannot keep any inventory. It's also important to note that the dc doesn't manufacture any products. So we need to make sure that everything that flows into our dc actually is going to flow out of our dc. And to do that, we're going to create a conservation_of_flow constraint. So let's think about what needs to go in that conservation_of_flow constraint. I'm going to go ahead and just copy this for simplicity purposes, this model sum from our assembly constraint, and we can start thinking about what we would modify to create that conservation_of_flow constraint. So conservation_flow would just have to say that my inbound flows have to equal my outbound flows. So let's go ahead and let's just calculate our inbound flows. So let's create a little note here. So in. Our inbound flows are going to equal the sum of t amount for t in transport if our transportation origin name equals our a name. Well, remember we created that distribution center matrix above. So maybe we'll just say-- let's say if that equals our dc name. Well, it turns out it shouldn't be our origin name, it should actually be our destination_name. So if our destination_name is our distribution_center, that's what's coming into our distribution_center. So let's call this destination, D-E-S-T-I-N-A-T-I-O-N. So if our destination_name is our distribution_center name, these are our inbound to our dc. So what would it look like to calculate the outbound to our dc? Let's go ahead and we'll copy that, and we'll say outbound. And that is actually going to be almost the same thing, with the exception of instead of being our destination_name, it's actually going to be our origin name. So when our origin name is our distribution_center name, we know those are things that are leaving our distribution_center. So we need to make sure that our outbound equals our inbound flows, so our inbound flows need to equal our outbound flows. So let's go ahead and let's create a for loop for that, and we'll start adding those items in as we go. So for dc, remember that's what I call it here, for dc in distribution_center, I want to create a new constraint. So my_model.add, my_model.add_contraint. And that is going to be name. And that's going to equal an f string. And I'm going to also say fn. So that function is going to equal-- force those two sums to be equal that we calculated below. So let's say this f string is actually going to be probably something like the name. So we're going to say dc bracket name bracket. So we formatted that function, underscore underscore. Let's call that conservation_of_flow. So let's go ahead and we'll add a quick note up here that this is our conservation_of_flow constraint. So this conservation_of_flow constraint. And so what does that function actually going to be? That function is actually going to say we want to make sure that this inbound equals that outbound. So I'm going to copy this line that we calculated. Now to keep things simple and just keep it in a way that we can easily read it, I'm going to go here inside of the model sum parentheses, I'm just going to move that down the line. And then at the end of my_model sum, I'm going to move that down the line as well. So this is my_model sum, is everything on this line. I'm going to say everything in my inbound has to equal, so I'm adding this double equals, and I'm going to copy this outbound flow. And this outbound flow is going to do the same thing. And I want to say-- maybe I'll just add these lines just to keep it consistent looking. So essentially what we're saying is everything that's coming inbound, so when it's the destination is our dc name, we want to make sure that equals the sum of everything that leaves our dc name, though, when it's the origin, so when it leaves. So now we have our conservation_of_flow constraint. Now I'm going to go ahead and get rid of some of these bonus lines down here that we use just for note taking purposes. And let's go ahead and continue on our way. So let's actually run this and see if this is going to work for us. So we are running. And it looks like it ran properly. I would highly encourage you to review this, make sure you really understand what's happening here. Make sure you understand why this is going to be our inbound flows and why this is going to be our outbound flow. So really take your time and dive through this conservation_of_flow constraint. It's really important to understand moving forward from an optimization perspective, and especially in network design. So now we've added this conservation_of_flow constraint. We shouldn't have to add any other constraints. So like I said, we already ran solve. We should be good to go. Let's go ahead and look at our formulation and make sure that makes sense. So I'm going to click on my_model.show_formulation. I'm going to run that. Let's go through and look at this. So we can see that we're minimizing the total cost of everything that's flowing, so everything from each assembly plant to each dc, as well as from each dc to each region. And we're minimizing all of that subject to our normal demand constraints. So this is only when things are going into region one. We have to make sure that those are greater than or equal to the region one constraint. Same thing for region two, region three. Now we'll go down to our assembly supply. That all make sense as well. So everything that leaves our assembly supply has to be less than the constraints we have, the limits we have on our assembly plants. And then finally, we have our last constraint, which is the dc conservation_of_flow And this is actually going to be a little different. So you'll notice here that we have-- everything that's flowing into our dc is going to be added. So everything flowing in. And everything leaving is subtracted. And we're setting that equal to 0. So remember inflows plus outflows-- or, sorry, inflows has to equal outflows. And if we just subtract those outflows over those inflows minus outflows, we would just set that equal to 0. So we're just doing that on the back-end. So actually pulp is doing that when that's compiling the model that's part of the COIN-OR package. And that's what we are using under the hood for the scx package. And so that's just doing that together and that just allows the computer to solve this problem easier. So that, we can see our dc conservation_of_flow, that actually is working, and that that's done properly. So let's go ahead and let's look at our outputs. Let's see if we did this properly. So I'm going to say my_model.show_outputs. We're going to go ahead and see that our objective function is 115,872.32. So I'm going to go ahead here and I'm going to submit this as an answer and see if we got that correct. We'll go ahead and submit. And it looks like we did indeed get that correct. So we have done this properly. So in this problem, remember, we went ahead and we added a slightly different transportation matrix. We added a conservation_of_flow constraint. And we made this model work, we edited it to make it work with this new dc in the middle. With all that said, like I said, please go back and review that and make sure you really understand what's going on. And I do thank you very much for your time.

## Video 5 - Solving Part 5
CONNOR MAKOWSKI: Hi there. Welcome to the Blinky problem part five. My name is Connor Makowski, and in this part of the Blinky problem, we are going to expand the model a little further to consider two dcs at the same time with different fixed costs. So you can see over here on the right-hand side, we have our problem statement, or what's going on in our problem. And the idea is we're considering a new dc. We can see that our current dc will have a different fixed cost than our-- so that's DC1, as well as what's going to be coming up to be like a new potential dc, which is DC2. You can see some of these things are represented already in our problem four data. So I'm going to go ahead and change this over here to problem five and we can get going on this. So let's go ahead and start thinking about what we want to do with our data. We want to incorporate our fixed cost and we also want to add some more items to our transportation matrix so we can see what's actually happening in that transportation matrix. Now it turns out this transportation matrix, or this dc, can have everything flying from assembly plant one and assembly plant two to this dc, as well as from this dc to each one of the three regions. So I'm going to go ahead and actually copy-- we already have this exact same structure in our transportation matrix for DC1. Let me go ahead and create-- copy these and paste it, and we can use this for DC2. So from A1 to DC1, that would be the first one in this new matrix. From A1 to DC2, that's going to be 15 miles. So we'll go ahead and say 15, 1-5. And then from assembly plant two to DC2, sum from A2 to DC2, that's going to go ahead and be 36 miles. So we're going to make a quick edit here to add 36 miles. And then from DC2 to R1, so to region one, is 135 miles, 1-3-5. And from DC2 to R2, that's going to be 45 miles, 4-5. And finally to region three is going to be 129 miles. And then the cost, it should still be-- inbound to the dc is $0.04, and outbound from the dc to the region is $0.08. So I think we're all good to go on that. I think we've got our transportation matrix set up. So all we did was take our initial matrix, we copied it, and we put it down. We made some edits so we could add in our new dc items. So let's go ahead down and look through our matrices again, start looking at what we've got here. So we've got our demand matrix. Our demand has not changed. Our assembly limitations also have not changed. But our distribution center now actually has some fixed costs. So we'll go ahead and we'll add those here. So I'm going to edit my DC1 to add a fixed cost. I'm going to go ahead and just call that fixed F-I-X-E-D underscore C-O-S-T, my fixed_cost. And that's going to go ahead and be the fixed_cost of 11,500, 1-1-5-0-0. I'm going to go ahead and just copy this, paste it right below, and we'll change it for our DC2. And DC2 is going to have a fixed_cost of 15,500, 1-5-5-0-0. So now we actually have adjusted our matrices and I think right now, we've included all of the data that we actually need in a matrix format. I'm going to go ahead and hit Run here. Let's continue thinking about our model. For t in transport, let's see if this all make sense still. The amount we're transporting is going to be a variable, and that's going to be from our origin to our destination. Yep, that all still makes sense. The total, or the cost for each item in our transportation matrix will still be our distance times our cost per mile. Yep, that all still makes sense. So it looks like we are good to run that cell. And finally, we'll go on down here and we will start thinking about our model. So instead of having Blinky P4, let's go ahead and call this Blinky22P5. We are still minimizing our model. Let's think about our objective function. Has our objective function changed? Actually, yes, it has. We're adjusting our model to consider the newly available information. We are going to minimize the total fixed and variable cost. So right now, this is just our variable cost. So we need to actually add in our fixed_cost. So we're going to say we have the model sum of the amount we have times the cost for t in transport plus some new variable that we are going to have. So it might be-- this is actually going to be from our distribution center matrix. So let's go ahead and say dc and maybe we'll call that something like use, whether or not we're using it, or opening this distribution center. So dc use times go ahead and say dc-- we're going to call that the fixed_cost times dc fixed_cost, F-I-X-E-D, dc fixed_cost for dc in distribution center. So I'm going to copy that, for dc in distribution center. So that is a little bit confusing. Let's go ahead and break that down just a little bit. I'm going to go ahead and add some parentheses here just so we can keep track of what's going on from a Pythonic standpoint, so in the lines. I'm going to go ahead and add a closing bracket here, or closing, I guess, closing parentheses. So what we have here is our first part, is our variable cost. And then the second part is actually going to be our fixed_cost for dc in distribution center. Now one of the things we seem to be missing is we don't actually have a way to determine if we're using our distribution center. So just like we do for our transportation matrix, let's go ahead and we'll add a new code cell below our transportation matrix and we'll say for dc in distribution_center, and we're going to say-- we're going to go ahead and create a use variable. So we're going to create a variable whether or not we want to actually use. So this is a decision variable whether or not we want to use this dc. And that's what we're going to use to enforce our fixed costs. So right now, we're just creating a variable that we can use to choose from. So in this case, let's go ahead and say dc bracket use, and that's going to actually equal a model variable. So let's go ahead we'll just copy this line for now. It's going to equal model.variable. That name is actually just going to be our dc name. Maybe we'll just do underscore underscore use. So whether or not this dc is called-- this is what our variable is going to be called, is the dc name. So DC1 underscore underscore use. Let's go ahead and we'll get rid of our low bound because there's not really a low bound. This actually needs to be a binary variable. Whether or not it's on or off is just a yes or no. There is no in between. So I'm actually going to use a part of this model variable. And again, this is in the documentation, but I'm going to use this, and I'm going to use the cat, so the category. Cat equals, and let's see if we get some help from Google Colab here. Doesn't appear to be popping up, but I know what we can use here. It's going to be cat binary, B-I-N-A-R-Y. So model.variable. The name here is whether or not we're using it. And finally, the category is binary. So this is a binary variable. It can only be 0 or 1. So I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to run that. And so this is just a binary variable we can use to enforce that this distribution center is either open or closed, or if it's in use or it's not in use. So now that we've done that, that should be accessible within our distribution center. And since we haven't run this cell yet, that's fine. So we can say dc use, that variable we just created, times our dc fixed_cost, which is what we have up here for dc in distribution center. So it looks like we should be good, that we've properly added our objective function to now include those fixed_costs as well as those variable costs. But what do we need to do now in order to enforce this as I could only ship products through my dc if I'm using my dc? So let's go ahead and we'll look through our constraints and make sure those all still make sense. This shouldn't change our demand, so that's good. It won't change our assembly. It might change our distribution center processes. But since this is a conservation_of_flow, we just need to make sure that everything going in is the same as it's going out. We shouldn't actually change that. We still need to have that enforced. So we're going to go ahead we're going to create a new constraint we'll call that a linking_constraint. And this linking_constraint essentially is going to say for these items in my distribution center, I want to go ahead and add a constraint that determines only if it's on can I ship products through it. And so I'm going to go ahead and say, again, for dc in-- for dc in distribution center, and then in that, I'm going to say my_model.add_constraint, and that is going to have the name of an f string, just like normal. Oops, name equals f string. And let's go ahead and just call that dc name linking_constraint. So we'll just copy this f string from up here and we'll say dc name and we'll call this linking_constraint, R-A-I-N-T, linking_constraint. I'll add a comma, and then we'll go ahead and add what our function is going to be, fn equals, and we'll fill that function out here in a second. So for each dc in our distribution center, we want to add a constraint that forces that. So how can we do that? Let's go ahead and say this function is going to be the M-O-D-E-L.sum, so the model.sum, just like we normally do. And that model.sum is going to have to be less than or equal to some M variable, so some sufficiently large number that we'll define here in a minute, times whether or not we're going to use the dc. So dc bracket use. So what we're saying is the sum of whatever we put in here, whatever goes into our dc, or whatever leaves our dc, has to be less than some large number times the fact that we're either using or not using this dc. So what is this large number? It's just some number large enough. Some people say it's 10 times the largest number in your problem or some other thing. I would typically argue it should be the largest number that your optimization package supports. But for simplicity, we'll go ahead and we'll just say 999,999. We'll just say that should be sufficient. We're familiar enough with our problem. The amount of flows that we'll have that we should be good here, especially considering our demand levels. So the sum of this model-- or sorry, model.sum, so we're going to have to calculate what this is going to be. What is that going to be? That's actually going to be sum of the flows that are either going into our dc or leaving our dc. Since we're enforcing the conservation_of_flow, it can either be the things going in our dc or the things leaving our dc. If, for example, we say it's the things leaving our dc, then essentially we're saying only if it's on can things leave our dc and this conservation_of_flow constraint above will force it that nothing can go in. And the other way around, if we say nothing can go in, this conservation_of_flow just says that nothing can go out. And so we can just choose one of these items. So I'll just say this one. Looks like this is our destination name, so that'd be inflows to our dc. And only if the sum of all inflows to our dc-- the sum of all inflows to our dc, sorry, must be less than or equal to this m value times the fact that our dc is on. So we've created a successful linking_constraint here. And we can go ahead and we'll run this. Let's see what happens and let's see if our formulation below makes sense. So I'm going to run this show formulation again. And we'll go through and we'll look through our processes here. We can see that we're still minimizing our larger cost function, just like we used to. We still are meeting all of our demand. And you'll notice here that we're actually flowing from each dc to each-- sorry, to each region. So everything that flows into region three from each dc has to be greater than or equal to, again, that total demand in region three. The same thing with our assembly supply that flows just like it used to. We have our conservation_of_flow, but we're going to create one of those per dc. So we'll have a conservation_of_flow for DC1 and our conservation_of_flow for DC2. And that should work just like it did in the previous part of this problem. Now the thing that's new here, again, is this linking_constraint. And what we're saying is everything that flows from, in this case, our assembly plant one to our DC1, as well as our assembly plant two to DC1, anything that flows into DC1 minus 99,999 times the fact that we're using the dc has to be less than or equal to 0. So what we're saying is we can only do this, we can only put items in there, if this dc is on. So that looks good as well. Again, that's just moving everything over to a 0 so we have all of our variables on the left-hand side of this function. And again, that's something that coin, or pulp does in the background when we compile this function here, or when we compile this formulation. So what're we going to do? We actually want to look at our outputs now that we think this is proper and correct. I'm going to go ahead and run this. So my model.show_outputs, that looks pretty good. And you'll notice we have some new variables here. We actually have whether or not we're using our dc. So it looks like we choose not to use DC1 but instead choose to use DC2. You can see the amount of flows that we have coming out of DC2. So you can see we don't have anything that flows through DC1. We only have items that flow through DC2. So everything flows from assembly plant one to DC2. And finally from DC2 to each of our regions that satisfies all of our demand. So it looks like we've enforced our constraint properly, and we should be good to go. So what is our new total cost? Our new total cost is actually going to be $98,262.32. I'm going to go ahead and copy that. We'll go over here and we will go ahead and submit that down here. What is the minimum total cost? I'm going to go ahead and say our minimum total cost. And which dc are we recommending? In this case, we are recommending DC2, remember? DC2 uses that. So I'm going to type in DC2. Go ahead and submit that. We'll see if we got it right. It looks like we are indeed correct, and that we are, in fact computing this correctly. Now again, let's go up and reiterate some of the things we've done. In this problem, we started out and we updated our distance matrix to include all of our distances going into our DC2. We then went ahead and updated our distribution center matrix to include our new DC2, as well as fixed_cost for each dc. We created a variable for each distribution center, whether or not we wanted to use it. And then we updated our objective function to say whether or not we used that variable times the fixed_cost we are going to use. And finally, we added a linking_constraint such that we can only ship the amount of products either into or out of our distribution center if that distribution center is on or is being used. And so we have successfully solved this problem and we should be good to go. I do thank you very much for your time as we move through these Blinky22 problems. Thank you.
