# week02 lesson2 advanced topics network design

(SC2x video lecture transcript)

## Introduction
OK. In this lesson, we're going to touch upon some more advanced topics in supply chain network design. Now we're not going to go into great depth here. What I want to do is give you a feel for some of these advanced concepts. So here's what we're going to talk about, these five topics. First, robustness, and by robustness, what we're trying to do is capture the effect that uncertainty has, and primarily, uncertainty in demand. So how do I handle this within the mixed integer linear program framework that we talked about? Then I'm going to talk about multi-commodity flow. So far, everything we've looked at is with a single commodity. That is, it doesn't matter where it's produced, or where it's demanded, the same unit is fungible. It can be used anywhere across that network. Now we're going to say they're different products, different SKUs, or different categories, and they all have to flow through the same system. So we'll see how we incorporate that. Then we'll move on to building and flexibility. This is somewhat related to robustness, but the idea here is, we want to set up the structure, our network, so that it makes it makes it easier to be more flexible, in case there's changes in demand. And we're going to look specifically at a concept called chaining. Then we're going to move into multi-time period models. These are, if I have to consider different periods of time, because so far we've assumed everything's one bucket of time, typically a year. Could be a month, could be a week. But we assume that it's a representative time period. In this case, with multiple time periods, we want to see what the effect is, for example, what happens in January influences what happens in February, influences what happens in March, and so on. This is more of a tactical planning model, and we'll see this again in other areas. But I wanted to introduce it here. And then finally, we'll talk about the thing that's been missing. The elephant in the room. The inventory considerations. Because if you've been paying attention, most supply chain network design approaches do not consider inventory in the network design. And so we'll talk about that one finally. OK. Let's get started.

## Handling Demand Uncertainty
So when we talk about robustness, we're really trying to understand how does my system, how does my network handle demand uncertainty without making major changes? Can it withstand different changes to demand? So let's talk about it, because so far we've assumed in our network design models that the demand, for example, the region is five units per week, per year, or whatever our time unit is. We assume it's a constant number, and that's usually taken as an average for that region. However, we know that's not always the case. So in this little chart, I'm assuming the horizontal axis is say weeks, right? And the vertical axis is cases, tons, whatever, the units. And so if we assume, for example, that a region has a demand of five units per week, then we're assuming that it looks like this across that time period that we're studying. When in fact, it might look something like this, which is a little more realistic, where we fluctuate around, but the average is still five. However, it might actually be something like this, where it's initially one unit per week, but shoots up to nine for the rest of the time period. So it ends up being on average five units a week, but it looks very different. In fact, I could have something where it's only one demand for one week is very high, I'd say up at, say, 130 units, but then at zero for the rest. And that, too, would actually have an average of five units per week. So we know that in reality we need to look at the underlying distribution, because, yes, we're going to model it as a one number, I have to use one number in my strategic network design for the optimization to work, but I need to be cognizant of what does the variability look like? And that will help influence how I treat that demand. So there's a couple approaches that are used in practice to handle this demand uncertainty. The first is stochastic optimization. This is where I characterize the uncertainty by some known probability distribution, and then the optimization tries to find the optimal expected value of that that is feasible for most outcomes. And now some approaches use a loss function to handle this uncertainty. Think back to inventory theory, where I have a loss function. So it's the expected amount that I'll be short, given that I have a certain quantity. So stochastic optimization, very powerful mathematical technique, requires lots of data, and the problem gets very big. You need specialized software for it. It's a good approach. Another approach is what we talked about, robust optimization. This is a newer approach that's been developed, and the idea here is that I get a set. We assume that uncertainty is bounded, and it's almost like creating a budget. A budget for uncertainty, a budget for the variability of demand, and I find the solution that's optimal within these bounds. So I find one that's not optimal to a point, but it's within a bound. And I could put references for both of these two techniques. They're in the key concept documents. But these are two approaches that both require specialized software, and are kind of different, newer techniques. Let me show you an easier way that's more commonly done in practice, that doesn't require any additional software or models beyond what we've already learned, and this is simulation based optimization. So the idea is I'm going to use Monte Carlo simulation, and I'm going to develop different scenarios. So all that Monte Carlo simulation is doing is randomly selecting what the value will be for the demand for a certain region, and every time I do it a new pick, a new selection, it's another random variable. We're going to solve the underlying linear program repeatedly for each of these new scenarios, and we're going to see what do the collective results look like? So let's do an example of this, because this is a nice powerful and easy approach to use. So we go back to our New England Root Beer Distributors, NERD4, and the objective, just to refresh everyone's memory, is we are a regional distributor of high-quality root beer. We're exploring network restructuring, conclude a bunch of different options, and what we're trying to do is understand how I should reroute my network. So I've got my plant in Scranton, I've got the five DC's located at New England Transportation from the plant to the DC's by truckload carrier. I store product at the DC's, and the DC's have varying capacity. So if you remember, this is what it looks like. My plant down here in the lower left, Scranton, Pennsylvania, and I've got my five candidate DC's, Springfield, Worcester, Providence, Boston, and Nashua, and the other cities that need to be supported. And I've got this expected demand, right? This is the expected demand in barrels of root beer, I think, per week. But the question is, what if the demand changes? How does that impact the design? So what I'm going to do here is show a technique that you can use using all the tools that we already have at hand. So what the idea is-- I'm going to generate scenarios. I'm going to do this in a spreadsheet, and I'm going to assume a probability distribution for demand. In this case, I'm going to assume that it's uniformly distributed around the expected demand. So when I said the expected demand for a certain region, for example Boston, was 450 barrels per week, then I'm going to assume that's the mean, that's the expected demand for Boston, EE[Di]. And then what I'm going to do is use a spreadsheet function that takes that value and multiplies it by a number. Now this number is one plus the RAND function minus 0.05. Now, the RAND function, if you haven't used this before, just returns a random variable between zero and one. So what this whole equation is doing is essentially adding or taking away 50% of the demand. So we're saying that if the demand in Boston is 450 units per week, then we're going to add 225 or take off 225, and that's the range that the randomness, the variability will act upon. So let me just clean this up a little bit. All right. So we're going to simulate this multiple times, and what I show in the bottom, here, is the spreadsheet. And so for Boston, I have 450, you see that's the mean. So row three is showing all the means, and then for each of the scenarios that start in row four and go down to row 11, here, and number them in column A, one, two, three, and so on, for the first scenario what we did is B$3 is just saying back to that Boston expected demand times one plus that RAND minus 0.5. So what I'm doing with the RAND is taking it off, so it goes 50% to 150% percent. So you can see all the different scenarios, and each time I run this, the random numbers keep changing. So each one of these is a scenario, and I do the same thing for each of the demands for each of the cities. So once I do this, and I did it about 100 times, I optimize it for each time. So each run what I do is I'm taking this demand for scenario one, I'm throwing into the optimization model, and resolving. Then I do it for two, then I do it for three, and I do it for four. So I do it over and over again, and then I look at what the results show. OK, I assumed a uniform distribution, here. But do you need to assume a uniform distribution? No. I can assume, for example, a normal distribution. If I did, I would just change the function that I'm putting here in cell B4. So I would use the NORM.INV function, and then I use that random number, zero to one, as the probability. Then the mean is the expected mean of that city's demand, and then I have to pick a coefficient of variation. In this case, I said 0.3. So it's 0.3 times the expected demand, that will give me a standard deviation. I could also, if I really wanted to be clever, make this a random variable, too. It doesn't matter. You can have all sorts of different scenarios of how you pick up the different demands for each scenario. But if you do this-- and what I did, is I ran 90 simulated runs, and the total demand across the network ranged from as low as 1,300 and as high as 2,400, which makes sense. It's about plus or minus 50%, and the median was about 2,000, which makes sense, it fits right within the ballpark. So here's what I came up with. The two centers, the two DC's that always showed up, every single time were Springfield and Nashua. That's really robust. So this is telling me, you know what? We want to make sure these networks stay, and it makes sense because then Nashua is serving the northern part, Springfield is serving a lot of the southern part. But then what's interesting, you look at the ones that showed up next likely, and then Worcester showed up 86% of the time, Boston 38%, and Providence 24%. So it kind of gives you an idea of how often a DC will show up. And it gives you an idea of the robustness-- where would I set things up? Where would I set my DC's to be more robust and not have to change when your demand fluctuates? Other things. I showed that Boston only opened when their share of the demand was 25% or higher. So that's interesting. So if I think Boston's demand is going to grow greater in proportion to the rest of the network, then maybe that's a nice one to add in, because that makes them a little more robust. And then we also observed some patterns, that Boston and Providence rarely opened together. Right? It was usually one or the other for these, because they're serving similar markets, and we found that instead, these two opened up more common. So what I showed you was an easy, quick way to handle robustness, build it in, see how robust your network design is. And so it doesn't require any additional software, any additional formulations. There are other, more sophisticated ways to do it, but this is just a great way, back of the envelope, to see how robust your solution is.

## Multi-Commodity Flow
So let's talk now about multi-commodity flow. So far, everything we've looked at has been a single commodity. And that is there's only one product that flows from our sources to our sinks, our origins to our destinations. And it doesn't matter where my product came from, which of the origins or which of the destinations it goes to. It was the same one. So now, we're going to introduce a more realistic assumption that there are multiple commodities in a multi-commodity flow problem. There's more than one product. And so each region might demand a certain quantity of different types of products. And that means they have to come from different locations. And you have to treat them differently. This is much more realistic. However, in a lot of cases, we still solve the single commodity problem. Why do we do it? Well, it's easier. It's much simpler than the multiple commodity one. It's smaller. And sometimes it's perfectly appropriate. When's it appropriate? It's appropriate if there's no bundling between the different commodities or shared constraints. So if I can isolate the two supply chains, and they don't interact at all, do them as single commodity flow. There's no reason to complicate the mix. For example, if I'm flowing bananas and cantaloupes, and they can't go in the same facilities or use the same transportation modes, treat them as separate models. Treat them separately. Model them separately. However, if there are interdependencies-- if, for example, both products, both commodities go through the same distribution center or they're manufactured at a plant that has a common capacity constraint-- then the effect of one will impact the other. So if I produce more bananas, in that case, it might lower the capacity available for cantaloupes. So then there's interaction. Then we have to model it as a multi-commodity flow problem. But if that doesn't happen, treat them as independent, single commodity problems. Solve them quickly. Easy to go. But the primary difference between the single commodity and the multi-commodity problems is that the formulation gets bigger and a little more complicated. So let's look at the formulations. Here is the single commodity flow formulation that you should be very comfortable with. I've got my objective function that I'm minimizing for all my costs for moving a product from i to j. So I have just variable costs here. There's no fixed cost in this model yet. We could add them in. But we're not going to. We're going to keep it simple here. And then I've got a series of constraints. I've got my supply constraints, or my capacity constraints at origins. I've got my demand constraints that I've got to meet at each of the destinations. I've got my conservation of flow constraints to make sure product comes into a transshipment point, the same amount goes out. Product doesn't magically arrive or magically disappear. And then I've got this capacity. And this is also at the transshipment points. You could actually put this anywhere that the amount of product flowing at a certain facility can't exceed a certain capacity. OK. So how would this look differently in multi-commodity flow? Well, it doesn't look that different actually. There's one big difference that you'll notice, is we introduce a new indices, k. So they're k different products. And so I have everything subscripted. So now, instead of xij, the flow from a product from i to j, it's x_ijk. And so it's the flow of product k from node i to node j. So it's a little more specific. The costs can also be specific by product. They don't have to be. And if they're not, I just get rid of the subscript k. If it costs the same amount, regardless of the product, for a certain transportation length, then I don't need to have a separate cost. But I have the same sets of constraints. I've got supply constraints. I've got demand constraints. I've got conservation of flow constraints. And then I've got the capacity constraint. Now, the only one I want to talk about for just a second is for the supply constraints. So I've got this top one is limiting it by each commodity. I can only produce or I can only source so much of each commodity at each origin i. The second one is saying regardless of the commodity, I can only produce a certain total amount. So let's say I have two commodities. And each one, I can produce 100 units of each. But my total system, or capacity at that facility, is only 150. So while I could produce 100 of one, if I do that, then I can only produce 50 of two. Or if I produce 100 of two, I can only produce 50 of product one. So you can have different hierarchy or layers of capacity, which is very realistic. So it helps me with the allocation of different products that I will produce. Let me just clean this up a little bit. All right. So this is the formulation. So the question is, how do we solve it? What is this going to look like? So let's do an example. And this is the Worldwide Universal Widgets Unlimited, or WUWU problem. As we all know, WUWU is a global manufacturer of widgets. They have three plants in Chicago, Dallas, and Miami. And they send product through two distribution centers. One in Atlanta, and one in Boston. And then they send them onto three different state regions for demand-- New York, Pennsylvania, and Virginia. And so the product always flows from plant to distribution center and distribution center to region. There's no bypassing in this model. So this looks very normal. This is a straight transshipment problem. You can do this in your sleep. Right? But what makes it complicated is this. Each of the plants manufactures three different versions of the widgets that we call versions one, two, and three. And each of the regions in the demand, they will demand different quantities of each of these. So you can see that this makes it a little more complicated, thus multi-commodity flow. OK. The question that we want to answer here is, where and in what quantity should WUWU manufacture each product and distribute it to meet the demand in each of the regions at the lowest cost? So it's the same objective function really as we had for the transshipment model. We need a lot more data. So each plant is capable of manufacturing all the products. They have different capacity levels and different costs. The costs for transportation differ by lane, as well as by product. And the demand differs. So what I have here in the top left chart is for each of the products-- product one, product two, product three-- the cost of transportation. So for example, if I manufacture in Chicago and ship through Atlanta and then go on to Pennsylvania, the cost of each unit will be 6 plus 6, $12 per unit. If I manufacture in Chicago and go through the Boston distribution for product one and then on to Pennsylvania, then the cost would be 5 plus 6, or $11 per unit. So you can see how I set this up. It's just giving all the different costs. And they can be different by commodity, by lane. So you can make it anything you want. Then I've got capacity at each of the distribution centers. Atlanta's 200. Boston's 500. I've got capacity at the plant. And you can see it. It's by product, except for Dallas. Dallas has individual plant product capacities for each of the different products. But then it has an overall plant. So while I can do up to 125 units of product one, up to 200 units of product two, and up to 150 units of product three, combined, they can only be 250. Now, if this capacity for Dallas as a whole was greater than the sum of the individual capacities, then it doesn't matter. It's useless. Why have it there? It's not binding. But if it's less than the sum of the individual ones, then it could have an effect. And finally, I've got regional demands for each of the regions, each of the products. And you can see they vary. In Virginia, they like product one. New York favors product two. And Pennsylvania favors product three. Realistic that different regions will have different preferences and appetites for different products. So how do I solve it? Well, I do the same formulation. This is in a spreadsheet. This is in Excel. And this should look very similar to the transshipment problem, just bigger. And so let's go through this. I've got my objective function up here in cell B4. And then I've got all my decision variables, that I keep in yellow, there in row nine. And right beneath that is the individual cost. And so the xij's and the cij's-- ijk's are there. And cell B4 is just the sum product of my decision variables and their respective costs. Same thing as it's been for every model we've done. Then I'm going to have a series of constraints. And every one of the constraints is the left-hand side. And each of these left-hand sides is just, again, a sumproduct of the decision variables that are in row nine multiplied by each respective row. In this case, in cell AM13, it's going to be the decision variables multiplied by whatever is in this row, row 13, which is just what's coming out of Chicago. And you see it's capturing the supply constraints from Chicago. So this is identical to what we've done a half a dozen times so far. And you have the right-hand side. This is the input data that you have. So the constraints-- I've got my capacity constraints at each plant. I've got my demand constraints at each customer region. And I've got my DC capacity. And then I've got my conservation of flow at each DC. Boom. We know how to solve this. So it looks complicated. It looks big. It is big. It gets big as soon as I introduce commodities, multiple commodities. But it's the same model as the transshipment model. It just has a couple little tweaks. But I still have essentially two formulas, a sumproduct up here for the objective function, and sumproducts here. That's it. It's so easy. OK. So what's the solution? We know how to do this. I have my objective function. I put in my changing variables, or my decision variables. I've entered in my constraints. I make sure it's simplex. Make sure their unconstrained variables are non-negative. And then I solve it. And you should get a solution of $6,525. And I've got my decision down here, or the solution down here. And so it's saying I'm going to ship product one, manufactured in Chicago, and ship 125 units to Boston. Then I'm going to make 100 units of product one in Dallas and ship it to Atlanta, and so forth. You have all the different numbers. Now, it's very complicated. And so what we're going to do next in the next segment is analyze these results, because we want to look at it a little more in depth than just what's showing up in the individual decision variables.

## Multi-Commodity Analysis
So let's analyze the results of the WUWU multicommodity flow problem. This is what we ended up with. Our objective function was 6,525; and you can see all the values for the decision variables in the two rows at the bottom in the yellow, the plane to DC flows, as well as the distribution center to region flows. Let's look a little deeper, though. So graphically, what I show here is how each product flows from plant through DC to end customer. So let's spend a second look at this. It looks like Chicago and Dallas are producing all three of the products in the optimal solution. Miami is only producing product three. It looks like Chicago only distributes product to Boston, while Dallas splits it between Boston and Atlanta. And Miami only delivers through Atlanta. New York is single sourced from Boston, while both Pennsylvania and Virginia are dual sourced from Boston and the Atlanta DC's. OK, so we have a feel for it, and so we have the solution. But I can cut the results a slightly different way and come up with other pieces of information that we need. For example, the production plant. The model is telling me that Chicago, for example, should produce 125 units of product one, 200 of two, 50 of product three, and the same thing for each of the other plants. And it also tells me how I want to move my product, not by part but total, to each of the distribution centers. It also gives me the flow through the DC's for each of the types of products and then on to each of the regions. So I can aggregate the data in many different ways to come up with different answers of the questions that I'm looking for. But let's look into something specific. Let's look, specifically, at the total landed cost, and in this case, for total landed cost, I mean the logistics cost from the plant through the DC to the final customer destination. So let's look at, overall, of the system. What's the average total landed cost for the widgets? This is easy. I take the total cost from the optimal solution $6,525; divided by the total number of widgets that flowed through, according to my model, and I get $10.04 per widget. Now, I can also look at it for each widget type. This is easy, again, since I don't have any fixed costs. I didn't put any fixed costs if I opened the Boston DC or opened the Atlanta DC. If I did, it would get even more complicated. But let's keep it simple for right now. So with no fixed costs, all I need to do is sum up the cost of flow of each of the variables or each of the product types. For widget one, it's 2,245. Widget two is 2,225. For widget three, it's 1,875; and divide it by the respective quantities. And I get the cost, unit cost per each of the widgets. These were easy. Let's get a little more complicated. What if I wanted to know, for a certain region, for each product type, what is the total landed cost? This is more difficult. The flows aren't always separable. So let's do an example. Let's look specifically at Pennsylvania, and we're going to go through and see the total landed cost for widget type one, widget type two, and widget type three. All right, so the first one, widget type one. This one's pretty easy because if I look at this, where does Pennsylvania get its widget ones? Well, looks like it comes through Atlanta- excuse me, through Boston and from Chicago. So all of the product for widget one is going to come this way. Therefore, the total landed cost is simply going to be the amount demanded by Pennsylvania, which was 75 times the cost of moving from Chicago to Boston to Pennsylvania, which is 5 plus 6, or 11. So this comes out to be $11 per unit, $825 total. That was easy. So now, let's move on to product two. Product two, for Pennsylvania, it looks like it comes in two different paths. Some come from Boston, which come from Chicago, so I have some coming this way. And I also have some coming from Dallas to Atlanta coming this way. How much of each? Well, I know that I've got 50 coming in from Boston to PA, and I know I've got 25 coming in to Atlanta to Pennsylvania. So therefore, I know the amount for each flow. So it's just taking a blended average. So I'm going to have 50 units times the cost from going to Chicago to Boston for product two, plus 25 times the cost from going from Dallas to Atlanta and then on to Pennsylvania for product two. And I get $10.33 per unit. So again, that wasn't too hard. We just had to take an average because we knew how much was coming in for each path. The paths were separate. Let's look at widget three now. And so for widget three, looking at Pennsylvania, how do I get product? Well, it could be manufactured in Chicago. shipped to Boston, and then on to Pennsylvania. It could be manufactured in Dallas, shipped to Boston, and then on to Pennsylvania. Or it could be made from Miami to Atlanta and in. Now the question here, I need to know how much of each type. And the challenge is some of it goes through Boston, and so I don't know how to allocate the cost for the inbound to the outbound that's going to Pennsylvania. So let's look a little closer. So here's the same situation, and what I want to figure out is how much goes in this path that I called x, how much is going in this path y, and how much is going in this path z because I know the cost of each of the individual pads. I just have to figure out the x, y, and z. And I know that some of them is 150 because that's what I demand for product three in Pennsylvania. So let me clean this up. So I know I need 150 units of widget three, and I know from the model, it tells me how much comes from each of the distribution centers into Pennsylvania- from Boston, 100, from Atlanta, 50. OK, so this helps me a little bit. So now I can backwards calculate, since, for Atlanta, they only get product three from Miami, I know that z, the amount that's going this path is going to be 50. So 50 of the units cost $8 per unit. So the challenge now is figuring out the ones that come through Boston. So how do I allocate this because it looks like 50 and 75, 125 come in, and 25 of it, 25, goes to New York. So we don't use all of it. So the question is how much of Chicago's is going to New York? How much is going to me in Pennsylvania? Same thing with Dallas. So let's give three examples that I could do, three possible cases. The first, I say 50-50. 50 units come from Chicago, 50 from Dallas, so that would give me a blended cost for these 100 units of $10 per unit. Now, I could also say, just on of the other extreme, I only take 25 from Chicago, and I take 75 coming from Dallas. Therefore, my blended average would give me $10.50. But we could also make the argument for any numbers in between, for example, I could say, well, if 125 units come out of Boston, and I use 100 of them, that's 80%, 100 over 125. So therefore, shouldn't I use 80% of the Chicago product and 80% of the Dallas product? And if I do that, then I come out with something in the middle $10.20 per unit. So which do I pick? This is where it gets into interesting accounting techniques because what we're doing is we're really trying to allocate which flows get accumulated and aggregate which product. And we'll talk about this in detail in a future lesson. But what I wanted to point out here is that it is somewhat arbitrary. Because when products come in, we don't know that every one of the Chicago ones goes to Pennsylvania. When they get to Boston, they're all now the same. They're all fungible within product three. So they come here, and then we've got to determine which ones to use. And it's really an accounting issue. So once I picked one of these, then I will find the total landed cost doing 50 of them at eight, and say, if I went with this allocation, I'd have 100 at $10. And then I could find easily what the total landed cost would be for widget three. But the key point I want to bring out here is that it's a little more complicated, especially when you have these bundling constraints, or these blended, or these interactions. All right, let's sum up multicommodity flow problems because this is what you really see in practice. So the formulation is very similar to single flow models. It's a transshipment model. It's not that more complicated in theory, in pieces. However, it gets much more complicated when you have bundling constraints, when the different commodities interact, when there are fixed costs, and capacity restrictions because then the volume of one commodity will influence what the other commodity can do. So there will be trade offs between commodities. There will be multiple flow paths, which makes the costing much more complicated. And of course, the size of the problem gets huge. So it really blows up. So these are some of the complications you'll see with multicommodity flow problems. However, there is one piece that we totally ignored, and this is the fundamental question- how many products should I model? And so we know that companies can have thousands or tens of thousands of SKUs. Should I model each one separately? Or should I model them all together? Should I capture all 10,000 SKUs and how they flow? This is a question about what we do in practice, so I'm going to hold off on answering that question to a later lecture. But I want you to think about this because the answer is somewhere in between- I model all of them individually in one big multicommodity flow, or I model everything as one product. And the answer is somewhere in the middle.

## Building in Flexibility
So now let's talk about how to build in flexibility into a network design model. We're going to return to our WUWU example, where we have three plants going through two distribution centers to three customer regions. We're going to modify it slightly. So we're going to call this WUWU2. And we just modify the data little bit. This the data that we had before. And the only things I changed were the price of three of the flows from Dallas to Atlanta. And Chicago and Dallas through Boston for product two. And I increased the capacity at each of the plants for different products. I did this to get a certain result. And it'll make sense in a second. So with these data, I solve the exact same problem in my solution. Looked like this. Very different from the previous one. We see the total cost, 6,625. But that's the least interesting part. The most interesting part is what happened. It looks like Chicago, Dallas, and Miami now each produce one product each. And each of those products is only produced in one location. This is known as a dedicated solution. Chicago produces only product 1. And product 1 is only produced in Chicago. Same thing with product 2 in Dallas and product 3 in Miami. So if I look through the distribution to New York, Pennsylvania, and Virginia, it looks somewhat the same once you get past the distribution centers. But the big difference here is that each of the products is only produced in one location. So that's the change of the results. We're just changing three or four of the pieces of information for the input. So the question is is this good or bad? Which is better? Is it better to have every plant producing every product or just have dedicated so that each product is produced in one and only one plant? And as with any complicated decision, it depends. So there are pros and cons. Let's talk about the pros. On the pros if I have a plant that's only making one product, I'm going to have huge economies of scale. Because I can leverage equipment, I can leverage labor, all those kind of things. So I have big economies of scale if I centralize and produce all the product in one location. Second, I can get additional expertise. Because if I'm producing one product, then all my people, my processes, my equipment, my technology could be geared to that one product. And it'll probably make it even better. It'll make it more efficient. And I'll gain a lot of expertise. However, there are also cons here. And here are two big ones. If I put all my eggs in one basket, which I'm doing here for each of the products. For example for product 1, it's only been produced in Chicago, then my risk exposure just got really big. Because what happens if something happens in Chicago such as a fire or bad weather or a strike? Something happens where my Chicago plant cannot produce product 1, then I'm out of luck. That's the only place I'm producing product 1 as opposed to if I had multiple locations producing it. So putting all your eggs in one basket does expose you to more risk. It also lessens your ability to respond to changes in demand. Because let's say there's a sudden peak or a surge in demand for product 1. If Chicago's already out at capacity, then they can't produce anymore. So they are not able to respond to that change in demand. And they're not able to be flexible. So there are pros and cons. And it's not always that companies will always go one way. There are strong points here. And there's strong points here. So it's really a complicated decision. But let's talk about some different ways that we can handle uncertainty in the demand. And we're going to talk about the flexibility buffer. But we've already learned a couple different ways that we can handle uncertainty in demand. So this is our situation. It's a dedicated system in that each product is only produced in one plant location. And so if I wanted to handle uncertainty here. If I'm worried about that there might be peak demand for product 1, can the Chicago plant handle it? Well, I could introduce capacity buffers. So instead of having the capacity at 250 units, I could increase this. Say it's 400. I build extra capacity there so if there is surge, I can take care of it. So I get rid of the capacity constraint. That's known as a capacity buffer. I could also create a time buffer. Let's say the existing service standard is that I respond to each demand in one week. Well, if I can somehow convince my customers to increase that to two weeks, then now I've increased a time buffer. I have two weeks to satisfy an order instead of just one. So buying me more time allows me to react to surges in demand. A third is an inventory buffer. This is safety stock or even anticipatory stock. If I build ahead of time so that I can handle any surges in demand. Because I already have extra inventory there above what I expect to need, but it's safety stock. So we know how to do all three of those. But let me show you a third-- or a fourth, rather, that's a little more interesting and is tied to how I allocate what gets manufactured where. And this is known as a flexibility buffer. And it was first introduced by Jordan and Graves in '95. And the idea is this, I can have two extreme solutions here. One, we've just seen, is the dedicated system. The other is one with total flexibility, where instead of each plant only produces one, each plant produces all the products. And you see how that would add a lot of flexibility because if demand surged for product 1, I could spread that capacity and that manufacturing need across all three plants. But this is very expensive. I lose my economies of scale. I don't have as good of expertise. Transportation cost will increase. If I force a solution like this into my WUWU2, it'll be much more expensive because I'm forcing flow where wouldn't normally go to achieve lowest cost. So what Jordan and Graves recommended, which is very clever, is saying, well, there's probably a solution between dedicated and total. And what they came up with is the idea of chaining. And the idea is that the Chicago plant in this case would produce product 1 and 2, the Dallas plant will produce 2 and 3, the Miami plant will produce 3 and 1. The idea that each plant-- each product rather-- is produced in two locations, two plants, gives it some flexibility, some back up. So if there is a surge, you could spill that over to the other backup plant. And it's chained. So it's not all going to one. So it adds a lot of flexibility at a much lower cost than this total flexibility option. So the things that they noted is that this chain flexibility can deliver the majority of the benefits as total flexibility. It's really interesting how just adding one extra one, that second option, really satisfies a lot of the need when you have flexibility or uncertainty in demand. And they also found that longer chains provide more benefits than shorter chains. So what I like about this, it's using the network design to give you better flexibility. Now, the optimization model will rarely, if ever, it'll be luck if it comes out with this solution. It's probably going to be some mix. But what you can do is force the solution to happen. Is see what it would cost to do this because the thing you're protecting against is uncertainty or volatility in your demand. And, remember, these are mixed integer linear programs so you don't have really any stochastic or random variables in there. So what you're doing is you're planning for it to handle that variability. It will not give you the lowest cost optimal solution out of a mixed integer linear program. But it will probably give you better flexibility in real life. So it's just an interesting concept that's very widely accepted and widely utilized. And it increases the flexibility simply by what plants produce which products.

## Multiple Time Periods
Now let's talk about multiple time period models. Our standard practice, and what we've done thus far, is that we model a single bucket of time, typically a year. We want to find what the annual plan is. And why do we do this? It fits a typical planning cycle. Most companies think in terms of annual cycles. We can always run "What if" analysis or "What if" scenarios if we want to increase the demand by 50%, 100%, and do some sensitivity analysis. And we showed how to do that. But what if we want to go and see how the demand changes or how the supply changes over each, say, month within that year? What if we want to develop a model that understands what happens in January impacts what I do in February, and in March, and so on. Well, to do this we would have to say, well does change happen over the course of a year? And, of course, it does. So demand, there's a lot of seasonality that happens to different products over the course of a year. Supply, especially in agriculture, a lot of products are only made at certain times of the year. And so there's a lot of seasonality to supply as well. Cost. There can be different labor rates over the course of a year based on seasonality, based on temperature, or weather. And also the capacity of different plants in different facilities are also impacted by the weather, plant shutdowns, and other things. So there is change over time. Typically, when I'm doing a strategic network design, I still look at it over the course of a year. But it might make sense to consider multiple time periods. And that's primarily when I'm looking at a tactical plan. So it's the end, I'm trying to plan for next year how to flow things. I'm getting a little more tactical. I'm not making decisions now of what plants to open, what DC's open, but how do I flow through my existing ones? And so when I want to consider these multiple time periods, it's almost like adding multiple commodities. And one similar aspect, it makes the problem very big, it gets huge. But it also means adding time indicates that other decisions are now frozen. Like the example I just gave. You're not going to make a decision to open or close a DC every month. So if I'm looking at the tactical monthly plan of flow, I'm going to assume that all the DC's are open. I've already determined which distribution centers will be open. And by having all these different time periods, you're building a lot more assumptions and it requires a lot more data. But let's talk about it. Let's talk about what the main difference is. And the primary difference between a single time period model and a multiple time period model is that you have conservation of flow now in two dimensions. We already know about conservation of flow over space. So that's where if I have no j, I know that everything coming in minus everything going out has to be equal to zero. Product doesn't disappear. Well now, I've got to think about it in terms of time as well. So we can accumulate inventory now at a node. And so I have to introduce a new variable, I_jt, which is equal to the inventory at node j, at time t. And now each node has a time index instead of just a spatial index. Here, this was just node j. It's the DC in Atlanta, or Boston, or Madrid, or Sydney. It had just a location. Now I have a time. It's the distribution center in Boston in January, Boston in February. So they have a time element as well. So therefore our flow is going to be a little more complicated. I have everything coming into it during that time period t. I've everything going out of it during that time period t. But then I've also got to consider what was there before that time period? So was there at node j,t the time period before. So that's j,t - 1, the period before. And then I know what I have in my inventory at node j at the end of that time period. So each node, each node time period, has a conservation. And so the flow in minus the flow out during that time period, plus the inventory I started with, minus the inventory I end with, has to equal zero. The inventory, either if it comes in, it either somewhere else or it sits for a time period in my same location. And it's captured in this I_j,t term. So what does a formulation look like? Not that different. That's the cool thing about these models. When you look at the formulation, you'll see some very common things. I'm looking at all my variable cost and my flows. The only difference here is I've got a subscript t because every time period now counts. I need to know how much am I flowing from A to B in time period one, two, and three. Because it'll differ. That's why I'm doing multiple time periods. But I still have my supply constraints, my demand constraints, and they're all indexed by t now, so it has to be specific to each time period. But then I've got something interesting. I've got this flow, conservation of flow constraint, which we just talked about. That the flow into a node minus the flow out of the node during that time period, plus what was in that node in the prior time period, minus what I end up with, is equal to zero. So that's that conservation of flow we just talked about. But by introducing this i term, I'm introducing this second term here in the objective function. Which is allow me to penalize or cost out a holding charge for the inventory. Because if inventory is sitting there, I'm getting charged for it. It's a holding cost. So what I have here for the first time in these network models, inventory is explicitly being costed out. You might have noticed that we haven't talked about it too much up to this point. And so that's kind of like the hidden secret. So what do you note about this? We can charge for inventory that accumulates at the nodes. That's with this term is doing. Because if I have inventory sitting there, I have to charge for it because it's capital that's tied up. But this allows me to trade off production, movement, and holding costs. So we get to see, does it make sense to produce in period one all the product you need for a year, which means I will incur a lot of holding cost? Or is it better to produce a little bit each month to satisfy each month, which means my holding cost will go down, but my transportation costs will go up. So now we're getting some more, some richer kind of trade offs. This also sets a production plan for each time period and it makes the problem really big, right, because I'm introducing a new term for every time period. And so you can just think about how big this would get if it's multi-commodity, multi-time period. So this is a very powerful model, and it's widely used for tactical planning, for production planning, and that's where we'll see it next. But it's very similar, when you look at it, to all the different models that we've done. You still have supply constraints, you have demand constraints. The same things.

## Inventory Considerations
So now let's talk about inventory considerations. How do I incorporate inventory costs, whether it's pipeline, cycle stock, safety stock, into my supply chain network design model? The short answer is you don't. Most analyses don't consider it. And in fact, there's a great quote by Jeremy Shapiro in Modeling the Supply Chain, is that it's almost an open secret. People who develop the models know that they're not including inventory into it, but that secret isn't usually transmitted to the clients. A lot of people who are supply chain managers think that a network design model also is making the trade-off with inventory, in addition to facility costs and transportation. The majority of the time, it is not considered. So you might ask, why? Why isn't it considered? Why don't we explicitly manage and monitor inventory in strategic network design models? Well, it's hard, because inventory policies, and the tools we use to come up with the design, don't fit with each other. Inventory policies are based on randomness, or probabilistic models, stochastic models, and they don't combine well with the deterministic models of the mixed-integer linear programming. So they really are different methodologies that don't necessarily fit well together. Secondly, all the determinants of your inventory policies that will in turn determine what your safety stock, cycle stock, and pipeline inventory levels are really only known tactically. You don't know your demand variability strategically one, two, three years in advance. The lead time you're going to have, the service level, the order size, all of these things are decisions made at the tactical level. So fixing this in strategically kind of doesn't make sense. It's almost false precision. The third reason is when I want to manage inventory, I think of an inventory balance equation. And using an inventory balance equation across an entire year, which might be the time bucket of my strategic network design, just doesn't make sense. A lot can happen in a year. And we talked about time-based models, where you have different time periods, that only makes sense for tactical modeling. So it really doesn't make sense to explicitly include inventory into the strategic network design. So what are some approaches that we can do for considering inventory cost? Well, there's really three approaches. The first one, and the most common, is ignore it. You treat it separately. You handle it offline. You let people know that you're not including inventory in the analysis. And sometimes this makes sense. If the inventory costs are a really small component of the supply chain cost, then ignoring it is probably perfectly fine. The second you can do is simulate it after the network design is done. So you come up with a model, which facilities you open and close, and how much demand each facility serves. You have to come up and assume a distribution of the demand. And then you can set your safety stock levels, your ordering policies, all of those things. The problem with that is that you're setting them according to the theory. And so you might have a cycle service level of 95%, and you're going to assume that you are actually going to operate at that perfect optimal level. And that really doesn't happen in practice. You can do it this way-- It's going to probably underestimate the amount of inventory that you're going to have. A third way that I like is to estimate it. And let me talk more about that. So let's talk about the easy one first, pipeline inventory. This is actually pretty easy to model. So I can just include my holding cost during pipeline moves into the unit cost for transportation. So if I know that something's moving from i to j, I should know the distance. I should have a rough idea of the length of time. So I can just put in the value of the product, the holding cost of that product, and therefore get a good sense of what the pipeline inventory cost would be. Now, if I'm doing a distribution model, where everything's going less than a day's travel, then this doesn't matter. Pipeline inventory for something that short is a rounding error. However, if I'm modeling the design of things coming across the ocean, where you might have a two or three-week transit time, then it matters. And so I want to include pipeline cost. And it's very easy to do. You can just add it in to the unit transportation costs. Now, where it gets tricky is with cycle and safety stock. But as luck would have it, as you observe this in practice, you see that it tends to follow a non-linear function with respect to the throughput at that facility. So you can think of it following this type of relationship, where the inventory, the average inventory at facility I, which is I_i. is equal to some parameter alpha, which is estimated, times the throughput of that facility, say, over the course of a year, raised to the power of beta. And beta is another estimate that ranged from 0.5 to 0.8. Now, this is a non-linear relationship. So it's saying as throughput increases-- so it goes from 1, to 2, to 3, to 4, inventory doesn't increase 1, to 2, to 3, to 4. It doesn't increase linear-- It's less than linear, so it tapers off. And that's because the beta is less than 1. If this beta was 2, it would say that inventory increases exponentially as throughput increases. But it's less than 1, so it tapers off. So what would I do with this? Well, here's an example. This chart shows each dot is a facility in a network. And what I've done is I've mapped each one in terms of what its annual throughput is and the average inventory at that location. Now, in this example, I used cases, because that's the common unit that's used in this model. I could do dollars. I could do pallets. I could do tons, barrels, whatever. And so I come up with this relationship. So every facility's on here, and then I do a regression line. And this regression line is of the same non-linear relationship. And in this case, I end up with a function there where alpha is 2.5, and the beta's 0.643. So what do I do with this? Well, now, I can determine whatever the throughput is that I can determine what the composite cycle and safety stock would be. So how would I use this? Well, let's do a case. So with case A, I have one DC that needs to put through 80,000 cases per year. And then the other option I have is two DC's, each that can handle 40,000. So for the case A, I can see that the inventory-- I can either use the equation or use the chart-- would be about 3,500 cases in average inventory per week, month, whatever my time unit is here. Case B, I'll be down here at 40,000, and it comes out to be about, what? At 2,250, something like that. But there'd be two of those DC's to handle that 80,000-unit throughput. So I double it, and it comes out to 4,551 cases, the average inventory. So what have we done? We've shown that if I go from one facility to two facilities, the inventory doesn't double. It actually increases close to square root of 2. This should sound very familiar. The square root of 2 policies that we have, where if I go from one facility to two, that the inventory theoretically will increase by square root of 2, not by 2? So it's the same thing here. That's why the parameters for that beta go from 0.5 to 0.8. Now, why don't I just use the square root of 2? Well, because in actual practice, you probably won't achieve that. You might have a little more inventory. And so this tempers that theoretical relationship with actual behavior, which is really nice. So you're capturing what you actually do for inventory, and applying it to your network design-- similar to how we looked at the pilot cases and you do the baseline case when we were doing initial scenario network designs. So in that case, you wanted to compare what you actually did to what you actually might do, not to a theoretical number. So let me clean this up a little bit, and we can think about how I include this in my model, because I could do it after the fact. But another thing I could do, if desired, I can turn this non-linear curve, which is hard to include in a mixed-integer linear program, into piecewise linear segments. So I can say that if the facility is less than 40,000 units handled, then I turn on a binary variable. And during that time frame, it adds the variable amount of cost for the average inventory. If I fall up here, in this period, then I add a new fixed cost, and then I add a different-- it's a slightly less additional marginal cost for inventory. So we can include this. This would greatly increase the number of variables we have. Think of these, every facility has multiple binary variables. But you can do it. The other way to do it is after the fact, see what you think the new safety stock and cycle stocks would be. So inventory is not explicitly considered in strategic network designs that use mixed-integer linear programs, but you can estimate them and include them after the fact-- or, if you want to, you can try to model them within the model. It just gets to be a very large model, and it gets somewhat complicated.

## Key Take Aways
All right. Another pretty intensive lesson here. So hopefully, you're getting a handle on things though, because we only did one thing during this lesson. We used this example of the New England Root Beer Distributors to show how to use network design models to test the different design scenarios. Previous lessons showed us how to build the models, and we played with them, and showed how the optimization worked. Now we apply them. And I tried to show through a very simple example, the three major steps. The first step, collecting the data, which is the most critical step, and the most commonly ignored step. It's the one that people gloss over because it's very hard. But you need to collect data that is representative and makes sense. The data has to be costs and capacities on the transportation arcs and the facilities. We'll talk much more about this in next week's lessons but this is always the hardest part and most time consuming part of any network design. The second thing we did, we built baselines. Why did we build a baseline? We need to make sure that our model closely resembles reality. That's why we use existing flows. A model that doesn't reflect what happens today is useless. No one will believe it in the future. So you have to make sure that the mechanics of the model and the costs of the model represent reality. And it's a great way to test your data. To make sure that the individual components of the data make sense. Make sure that the total costs look reasonable, but also make sure that the different components, the facility cost, the distribution cost, the transportation costs, make sure those buckets are also somewhat reasonable. Then we use the baseline. We optimized that to be able to compare it to the new designs. You don't want to just compare last year's bad execution to a future plan with perfect execution. You have to make it apples to apples, and that's why we created the other baselines. Because we said OK, now let's take away the poor execution because when I do future models, it's going to assume that it's executed perfectly, because we're all perfect in the future. So we need to make sure I'm comparing apples to apples and not apples to my baseline one, which is more like a rotten apple. It has all that bad execution in it. All right. The last thing we did was the fun part, and that's running the scenarios. They are so easy to run. And I showed you how to run them in a spreadsheet. And that's where you have to change cells, and that's pretty complicated. Using sophisticated software, it's very easy. And so, you can spend a lot of time running these. And as you can think about it, you could run a million different scenarios. So you have to think more about what you want to do, and I'll spend more time on this next week to talk about how you might want to run your scenarios, and how you want-- might want to organize them. Because it's very easy to get overwhelmed. But these scenarios are an excellent way to price out potential options. It's not just about getting an answer. The answer is six. Right? It's all about understanding what the recommendation is and using your common sense. Remember, it's an art and a science. We're showing the science, but you need to make sure that art comes in and make sure you-- the solution makes business sense, not just mathematical, optimal sense. But you do have to resist that temptation for analysis paralysis. You could do scenarios forever, I've been engaged in the scenario planning and other optimization based studies where we spent more than six months doing analysis of scenario, after scenario, after scenario. It doesn't necessarily lead to a better result. So you have to guard against that. Just because it's easy to run a million scenarios doesn't mean you need to run a million scenarios. All right. So that's the lesson. I'm excited about it, Wilson's terribly excited about network design. I hope you are too. So chat if you have any questions. Please use the discussion forum and try the practice problems. Get comfortable using the model to do scenario analysis.
