# week09 lesson2 discounted cash flows

(SC2x video lecture transcript)

## Introduction
Welcome to lesson two in the second week of supply chain finance. We're going to talk about discounted cash flow analysis. In the last lesson, we talked about cash flows that happen in our supply chain. We're now going to analyze and then make decisions. So if you remember from the last lesson where we left off, we talked about investment evaluations, and we learned how to estimate the future cash flows and the relevant future cash flows. We now need to focus on how to calculate a figure of merit and compare it to an acceptance criterion in making a decision. So basically, we've taken our supply chain and turned that into cash flows here. And now we need to take those cash flow projections and turn those into a decision about our supply chain design. And we're using very standard financial techniques to do this. So we'll start by introducing a few figures of merit and acceptance criterion as illustrations, and they're ones that can be useful. But they don't incorporate something called the time value of money, the fact that today's money is worth more than money in the future. So we want to incorporate that by looking at a discount rate. We'll discount any future cash flows by a rate to determine what their value is today. That's the fundamental basis for the key figures of merit we'll use in discounting cash flow analysis, net present value, and internal rate of return. That's the fundamental approaches we'll use to analyze the cash flows. We'll also talk about terminal value. At the end of the projected cash flow horizon, there may be future cash flows that are still going to create value. And we'll talk about how to turn those into something called the terminal value and incorporate them in our evaluation. And finally, we'll look at inventory holding costs, which is an important parameter in designing supply chains, and we will make sure that we're incorporating all those inventories holding costs appropriately in our discounted cash flow analysis. There's a lot of material, so let's get moving.

## Figures of Merit and Acceptance Criteria
In this segment, we finally get to discuss figures of merit and acceptance criteria. And why do I say finally? Well, in considering our investment evaluation process, we've been focused entire lesson one on this first step of estimating the relevant cash flows. And that's a difficult step, but we now get to consider these figures of merit and acceptance criterion in order to make decisions about these investments. So what is a figure of merit? It is basically a single number that when you boil down the investment, in terms of its economic value, we can boil it down to one number. And then this number can be compared with the criterion that's established by the firm in order to make that decision. It's important to note here that this is established by the firm. This is something each individual firm will determine, based on its discussion with its investors. There's no global criterion that you would compare it against. In addition, there's several different options for figures of merit that we can use and then the associated criteria that go with them. So we're going to begin in this segment by considering a couple of simple back of the envelope options and then move on later in the lesson to consider some more advanced ones. In order to introduce these figures of merit, we're going to have an example here. And in this case, we've got an energy component manufacturer called Plata Solar. I don't know if you've noticed my naming conventions for companies. They're all based on river names that are not Amazon, because that one's already taken by a big company. So Plata Solar is considering new automation equipment to reduce its cost per setup in its manufacturing process by $1,000 for each setup. This equipment cost $30,000, it lasts three years, and it doesn't have any salvage value. So over three years, we're going to have to replace it after three years. Plata currently makes 13 setups each year, the tax rate is 30%, and I would assume to use straight line depreciation in this example. So given what we learned in lesson one, you should be able to determine the relevant cash flows, and then we can move on and finally consider whether the investment is worthwhile or not. So why don't you maybe pause for moment, pull out your template on free cash flows, and determine the relevant cash flows for this example. And then we'll move forward. All right, so if you've taken this example and considered the relevant cash flows, you might have come up with these projections. So we have our equipment upfront. This automation equipment cost $30,000, so that shows up in our net capital expenditures. And it'll show up as an investment in this first year down here. We have 13 setups each year, each costing us $1,000, and we're saving that. We're reducing it per setup up of $1,000. So 13 times 1,000 gives us the $13,000. And it's recurring. Each year we have setups we're reducing over that three year period. There's no salvage value at the end. So we don't have any, you know, any salvage at the end of this process. We do have depreciation, though, of the equipment. And it depreciates down to 0. So it's $10,000 each year. And so that will affect our-- reduce our EBIT, therefore, reduce our taxes, which are relevant cash flow. And we get our NOPAT here at $2,100 each year. And we add back in that depreciation, because it's not a cash flow. So at the bottom line, we have return of $12,100 for each of the three years following our investment, and a quick back of the envelope assessment, at least we bring back over $36,000 on this $30,000 investment. It's at least worth considering. So let's keep these free cash flows here at the bottom and consider our first figure of merit. And that's the payback period. Payback period is fairly intuitive, and it's what it sounds like. It's the time until the cumulative cash flows pay back and are equal to our initial investment. So if we look at this example here, we can kind of guess that it's already, you know, $24,200 over the first two years, it's but yet $36,000 at the end of this year, so it's sometime between year two and three. And we're going to have to compare that with a criterion to see if the payback period is less than a certain cut-off point. So let's assume within Plata Solar that our payback cut-off is three years, and we can calculate the payback period. Since, so we get $12,100 each year, we can just divide the $30,000 investment by $12,100, and that gives us 2.48 years. Since 2.48 is less than 3, which is our criterion, we would say, this is a good investment. We can accept this investment. It would be a good investment based on the payback period. So, in considering this payback period, it's pretty straightforward to understand. It's very simple. It gives you a rough measure of the risk of the investment, because if things payback sooner, they're less risky. So if we reduce our cut-off, we'll take less riskier investments. So that could be something to consider. However, it doesn't consider the timing of the cash flows. So let's consider that we had in our firm, for the same $30,000 investment, there may have been some other options we could have done to invest in assets. And maybe they would have returned $24,200 in the first year, in this case here, and then $12,100 in the third year, or maybe that $24,200 came in the second year. Each of these would be equivalent to what we have in our automation equipment example, because we get $24,200 in the first two years and the same rate in the third year, so they will all be 2.48 years of the payback period. However, we would really prefer to get this cash up front, because we could reinvest it in other assets in our firm, or even put it in the bank and get some interest. So this is actually a preferred option among these three. In addition the payback period does not consider cash flows that happen after the payback period. So for example, if we had yet another investment of $30,000 that could have returned the $12,100 each year like ours-- our automation equipment-- but then had an additional $100,000 at the, beyond the payback period, that may be even more attractive than any of the other options presented here. And it also has the same payback period of 2.4 years, even though that investment may be much more attractive. So there are some weaknesses in the payback period, even though it's very simple to calculate. Another back of the envelope simple figure of merit is a return on assets. Return on assets is a very common ratio that's considered when doing financial analysis of a firm. And that's a simply taking the net income of a firm and dividing by its total assets. And the acceptance criterion here would be is if we should invest if the return on assets is greater than the target return. So our investors may be expecting 15% return on assets each year. So if we were then to calculate the net income, we would first take from our free cash flow template our EBIT minus the depreciation and taxes to give us the net income, which, in this case, ends up being the same as our NOPAT. So that net income, the numerator, is $2,100 each year. Our total assets will be our investment in the equipment, which is $30,000 upfront, but is depreciated over time, so as we depreciate it, those total assets go down. As a result, the return on assets the first year is 2,100 divided by 30,000 gives us 7%. But in the future years, as our assets are depreciated, our return on investments goes up. Averaging it over the three years, we get 12.8%, which, in this case, is less than 15%. So if our investors are expecting 15% return on assets, we would not invest in this equipment. So one weakness of the return on assets is that, if you remember, depreciation is not really a cash flow. So net income incorporates this, but we don't have an adjustment to take it back out, and it's not a relevant cash flow. So it's something we probably shouldn't consider in our investments. In addition, this return on assets figure of merit also suffers from the same issues with timing. And so let's give an example here. What if the timing of the cash flows changed? And this is the base example here on the right-- up top. What if we had the same magnitude in 39 setups, and the same net income as a result of $6,300 over the three years. But instead of having them even, 13 each year, we do 12, 12, and 15. So there's more setups in the third year. What happens is that means that our return on assets goes down significantly in the first two years but is very large in the third year, and, on average, is now 15%-- over 15%. So if we just adjusted the cash flows, this would actually say it's a good investment using the return on assets, even though we're actually postponing the returns to a much later time period, which, as we discussed earlier, we'd rather get cash earlier so we could reinvest it than to get it later. And, in fact, if you flip it around and put those 15 set-ups in the first year and our large cash flow initially, which is what we would in general prefer-- to have cash earlier-- our average return on assets goes down. So the return on assets also suffers from not considering the timing of cash flows. It is a positive figure of merit to consider, because it is very linked to the financial statements and the ratios that investors may be using to analyze our firm, but it doesn't consider cash flows. It's based on accounting calculations, for example, depreciation in this case. So it isn't really considering the relevant cash flows, and it doesn't consider the timing of cash flows. Notice that both of these figures of merit have the weakness of not considering the time of cash flows. So we're going to consider figures of merit going forward that do consider the timing of cash flows. And in the next segment, we'll talk about the time value of money.

## Time Value of Money and Discount Rate
In the last segment, we considered how some of the figures of merit that we might use do not consider the timing of cash flows very well. So in this segment, we'll talk a little bit more about the time value of money and why that's important and talk about a process called discounting and the discount rate to deal with that. So if we look at what is the time value of money, we have to start with a question saying, why is today's cash more valuable than tomorrow's cash. What is the value of money today versus tomorrow? And as we discussed in the last segment, one reason is that if we have cash today, we can invest it and get further returns. So there's an opportunity cost of waiting until tomorrow because we forgo those investment options. In addition, there is the impact of inflation that over time as our purchasing power goes down because of inflation, we would rather have money today and buy things today than wait until tomorrow when the prices go up. Finally, there's a risk component that receiving cash today is better because things may happen between now and tomorrow and the receipt of cash is not guaranteed. So we don't really formally consider inflation, as we mentioned, in the first lesson in these analyses. And we don't get as far as it really addressing risk formally in this week, but there are other important factors, although we will only consider the opportunity cost in determining the time value of money. So how do we consider this in our analysis? We're going to calculate what we call the present value of our future cash. So we're going to take tomorrow's cash and turn it into a present value. And therefore, cash flows that happen at different times in the future can be compared on the same basis of the present value. And we'll do that using a discount rate. And we'll introduce what that is. So, the present value. How do we think about the present value? Well, let's start by thinking about something maybe we may be more familiar with, and that is the future value. So FV stands for future value. And PV is present value. So if we have a present value of money and we invest it at a growth rate of r, then we take that present value times 1 plus r, and then we raise that to the exponent n, to determine the future value. This is a concept called compounding. So you may be familiar with this. For example, if you put money into a certificate of deposit at a bank, and they say they guarantee to pay you 5% return, then you would put 0.05 in for r, and you'd multiply your present value, the money you invest now, times 1.05 raised to the number of periods-- years in this case, if they're doing 5% annually-- the number of years in the future, and determine what you will get back on that certificate of deposit, depending on the duration of that certificate. So that's compounding. If we simply divide both sides by 1 plus r to the n power, we will-- it's simple algebra to come up with a different equation that helps us calculate our present value. That's taking our future values and dividing that by that 1 plus r to the n. This is a process called discounting. We're discounting the future cash flows into present values. And so the r now is, instead of a growth rate, it's considered a discount rate. Now it's important that you make sure that the time period you're using for the number of periods, as well as for the growth rate or the discount rate in the period, are using the same time unit. So typically, in all the analyses we'll do in this lesson we'll focus on annual periods and annual rates. So we see that with the present value formula, we now incorporate the magnitude of the future of the future cash flows as well as the timing of the future cash flows, the number of periods in the future. There's one other variable that really will affect the calculation of our present values, and that's this r, the discount rate. This will be an important assumption in calculating the present values to compare different options. And this rate is determined based on considering this fundamental investment process that we described earlier. So remember our debt investors and our equity investors give the firm money. We invest it and get future returns and then return it to them. So the debt investors have a certain rate that they have agreed upon with the firm, and it's a formal contract put in place that we will pay them back. For example, a loan at a certain rate over a period of time. The rate that the stockholders, or the equity investors, expect depends on what options they have in terms of investing in other financial assets. So they will consider the risk of investing in our firm versus other risks they have in their financial portfolio and then determine an appropriate rate. Combining these rates together helps us determine what is the appropriate discount rate for our firm because the discount rate is based on our investors' expected rate of return when they give us their money. An example of how to do this is something called the weighted average cost of capital, or WACC. And I'm not going to describe this in detail. But it basically balances this equity rate, which has a higher risk because they get paid after the debt holders, and the debt rate, which is going to be different and a little bit lower because it has lower risk for the debt holders because they're paid before the equity investors if there's any liquidation. So combining those together will give us a weighted average cost of capital. Now, one important note here. We mentioned before in our net operating profit after taxes, or NOPAT, that we didn't incorporate the interest expense when calculating our taxes. There is a benefit of paying interest because it reduces our tax burden and taxes are a relevant cash flow. But the way that it's suggested is by adjusting the debt rate by that tax amount. And so it separates the cash flows for financing from the cash flows of operations, which is what we're really focusing on when we're considering that investment in operational assets. So the WACC is one example, there are other ones. For example, a capital asset pricing model, CAPM. There's different approaches for determining the discount rate, and this will be set by finance. However, our role in supply chain is to, once the discount rate is given, make sure that we're giving a good return on the discount rate on the operational assets, that we're providing those future cash flows to give a proper rate of return. And if we do that, if we at least meet the discount rate of return, the expectation from the expected rate of return for our investors, then our stock price should remain constant. We're meeting their expectations. If instead, we exceed the expectations, our returns are higher than that rate, then more investors will want to invest in our company and the stock price will go up. Consequently, if we fall short and we don't provide that proper rate of return, then our investors might sell, our equity investors might sell their stock, and our stock price would go down. So our role in supply chain and providing an appropriate return on the operational assets really has a strong impact on the overall performance of the firm. And in some ways, this is why this is also called the hurdle rate. This hurdle rate of the discount rate sets the hurdle by which we have to run our operations to exceed the expectations of our investors. So we now have all the components that are in place in order to conduct our discounted cash flow analysis, which is really what we're going to focus on in this lesson. And we'll talk about that in the next segment.

## Net Present Value
So far in this lesson we've considered two figures of merit for evaluating investments-- the payback period and return on assets. We also discussed how they don't incorporate the timing of the cash flows, and that the time value of money is an important factor when evaluating investments for the investors of our firm. This segment talks about a figure of merit that does incorporate the time value of money, and that's net present value. So looking at the magnitude and the timing of cash flows, this is the example from the previous lesson, where we talked about how taking cash flows that happen over time at various points in time, such as the blue cash flows, and consolidating them into consistent periods. Adding up all the cash flows in a period and considering them at the end of the period is helpful. And we'll see in a minute why that's helpful in terms of our calculations. We also discussed in the previous segment how receiving cash earlier is better because we can reinvest it and then generate more value. So when looking at these two sets of cash flows, we may wonder which one creates more value. Is it better to get money earlier or later? Well, it's better to get money earlier, so the timing is better on the one on the left here. But the arrows don't tell you exactly how much there worth. So if I told you how much each cash flow is, we could then add these up and see that this total here is 275, and the total on the right here is 300. So the magnitude of the future cash flows is actually better on the right than on the left. So we can't obviously, by just looking at the cash flows, determine which creates more value. We actually need to do a calculation and determine the present value of those future cash flows in order to make this assessment. And we have the formula from the previous segment of how to take future cash flows and discount them using a discount rate to the present value. So we need to do that for all these cash flows and look at the combined total, or the sum of the present values of those future cash flows, in order to make our assessment, and that's what this formula shows. It takes the cash flow in Period 1, which is represented by c_1, and the cash flow in Period 2, represented by c_2, and it discounts by an appropriate amount. We have cash flow in Period 3, which would be c_3, and we'd, again, discount that by 1 + r. It's the third period, so we would have to cube that. And then we have a fourth period, so our t, the length of our horizon is four periods, so that's our c_4. We also have to make the exponent four periods in the future as well. And then we could, with this formula, calculate the combined present value of all these cash flows. Note that we also have to consider not only the future cash flows but also the initial investment, which is a negative number here, in making our decision. So looking at the future cash flows and netting out the initial investment, we get the formula for that present value. So this is again the future cash flows that we just calculated, the discounted to the present value of the future. We're doing the present value of those future cash flows. And then we have our initial investment. And we can use this to make a decision. Which one creates more value? And note that in this formula we are not discounting the period zero cash flow, because it is the present value. This happens right away. It's an initial investment. So it's in the present already. We don't need to discount it. Now in order to calculate this using Excel in the previous segment, we actually typed a formula in for discounting a future value to the present. We did the cash flow divided by 1 plus the rate, and we put the exponent in. If we did that for all of the terms, especially if we had a lot of cash flows, that might be a bit tedious. Fortunately, the spreadsheets that we are using here, the Excel and LibreOffice, have a function called NPV, which is applied in the same way in both situations for both Excel and LibreOffice, and that is the function value is NPV. The initial term is the discount rate that you're going to use. And then you just type in the future cash flows. So using the nomenclature above, we have our rate r is the first value in the spreadsheet function, and then the c_1 is our first cash flow. Now, you may wonder why is c_1 the first cash flow? Well, this is because of the way that the function works, it assumes that the cash flow happens at the end of the period. So the first cash flow happens at the end of period 1 would be c_1. We do want to incorporate our initial investment, c_0, so we'll have to add the cash flow for period 0 outside of the NPV function. So, for example, if we had a discount rate of 10%, and our future values, the four future values, are in cells A2, A3, A4, and A5, that would be the net present value of those future ones. We would then add in our initial one, which maybe in cell A1, to do our calculation. Let's illustrate this with an example, and let's use the cash flows we showed at the beginning of the segment to answer our question. So if we were to take the first one up top, we could use the function directly and type in our discount rate. We're assuming a discount rate of 10%. We use the decimal in the spreadsheet function here. We take the future cash flows and type them in individually here. These are all the future cash flows. And then we add a negative number in, or subtract the initial investment here, to determine that present value. And we could also use the cell references in our formula, and that would give us a value of 32.1. So we want to compare this with the cash flows in rows six and seven, or actually, the cash flows are in row seven. The periods are described in row six. And we could type the formula in again and type the numbers in, but we have this in a spreadsheet in cells that are easy to reference, so that's usually the easier way to calculate that present value. We'd take our rate here. It's in cell B8. We'd take our future cash flows. That's in cells C7 through F7, and we add in a negative value in B7, which effectively is subtracting 200, and that gives us a net present value. I don't know if you've typed it in here or not. I'll wait for a minute, if you want to type it in and see the answer. So we see that the value is actually lower for the second set of cash flows in this particular instance, with a discount rate of 10%. And these particular future cash flows for our investment of 200, that the magnitude of the future cash flows, even though they happen later, actually generate more value in this particular case. Now let's use this to-- well, let's summarize how this could be a useful figure of merit. The net present value again is the sum of all of the cash flows that happen in the future, including the initial investment. So it's the present value of our future cash flows plus the investment, which is a negative number, and that's our net present value. Now, what's our criterion going to be if that's our value? What is the acceptance criterion for the particular investment we're making? Well, if we're discounting the cash flows exactly at the rate that our investors expect, we would want our future cash flows discounted to the present to at least-- we would want it to exceed our investment, at least equal it, but we would want it to actually do better. If it equals, then we're barely meeting the investor's expectations. But we would want it to exceed the investment. So if our NPV is this formula, and we want the future values to exceed our investments, we would want the NPV to be greater than zero. That means our future values exceed our investment, and that would be a good investment decision on behalf of our investors. So that is our acceptance criteria. We invest if the future value of our cash flows is greater than the investment up front. So the NPV is greater than zero. The net present value, considering all those cash flows, is greater than zero. Let's apply this to the example we used with our payback period and return on assets before. So the projected cash flows are the same, and we will use these free cash flows like we did before. But now we're going to discount them to the present, so we need to assume a discount rate. So if we use the 10% that we used in our previous example, we would type in 10%. These are the future cash flows, the 12,100. We add in the negative 30,000 and the time 0. The sum then becomes, or the net present value becomes, 91. That's greater than zero, and so we would invest, if our discount rate is 10%. However, we recall that this is an energy technology company, and the investors expect growth. They have higher expectations. So the firm uses a discount rate of 15%. Simply changing this value from 10% to 15% has a dramatic impact on our net present value. It now becomes negative 2,373, which is less than zero. So given the expectations of our investors for Plata Solar, this automation equipment is not a good investment. So we've seen now the net present value can be used as a figure of merit. It's definitely good because it incorporates the time value of money, which the payback period and return on assets did not. It's also based on relevant cash flows. The payback period can use relevant cash flows. The return on assets is an accounting calculation which doesn't necessarily incorporate all the relevant cash flows, but this does. In addition, the net present value gives us an actual value. It quantifies the value that's been created for the investors. That's a nice advantage because we can actually look at it to compare different ones and determine which set of cash flows creates more value. There is a weakness however, and we saw that if we pick a discount rate that's lower, it can make our decision very different. The discount rate has a strong impact on the decision we're making. So we have to make sure we're picking the right discount rate on behalf of our investors. That may be a tricky proposition, and it motivates us to consider another figure of merit of that we'll discuss in the next segment.

## Internal Rate of Return
In this segment, we consider yet another figure of merit for investment decisions. I told you there were several. And this one is called the internal rate of return, or IRR. So to motivate the IRR-- which is not so easy to say, is it-- let's consider the previous segment we had, the net present value, when we showed how it's really useful because it considers the time value of money. It's based on relevant cash flows. And it quantifies the value being created. So these are some good attributes for a figure of merit. But it's dependent on picking the right discount rate. So are investors expecting 10% or 11%? And it may not be easy to determine exactly what their expectations are. Though we can get an indication of what they expect, to determine for all of our investors what they exactly expect and pick a precise value is really difficult. So instead, it might be nice if we could determine the range of rates that make the investment worthwhile. And therefore, if we can say that our investors' expectations safely fall within that range, then we feel comfortable moving forward with the investment. And that's exactly what we're trying to do with the internal rate of return, or IRR. So this figure of merit, IRR, is the discount rate that gives the net present value equal to 0. So it's the rate you'd plug-in to get an NPV equal to 0. Let's draw a little example here to illustrate this. So if we have our discount rate-- and it looks like this doughnut, doesn't it? Discount rate. You can't read my writing very well. But you know what I'm saying there, discount rate on the x-axis. And we have our NPV, NPV, net present value on the y-axis. For low discount rates, the net present value will be higher for a given set of cash flows. So the lower the rate, the higher the value of NPV. And it would go something like this, that it would go down over time, as long as we're making a traditional investment of up-front money and then future cash flows that are positive. So the point at which the net present value-- this is 0. So the point at which it crosses 0, this is our IRR, internal rate of return. Now, remember that for a net present value greater than 0, so for anything above 0, we would invest. So therefore, anything between a rate of 0 and IRR in this range, as long as our target rate of return is in that range, then we would invest in that. We would make that investment for the cash flows that, given their present value that's positive, between 0 and IRR. For any target rate that's above the IRR, we would have a negative net present value. Therefore, we would not invest. So this basically gives us our criteria for acceptance, given the IRR, or figure of merit. And that is, we should invest if the IRR is greater than the target rate of return. Or in other words, as long as the target rate of return falls between 0 and IRR, then we would make the investment and feel comfortable doing that. So to calculate this IRR-- I keep saying that. It's kind of tough to say-- we would set net present value equal to 0. So net present value is again this formula. We would plug IRR in as our variable and solve for IRR to figure out what rate gives us a net present value of 0. Now, this looks pretty complicated. And in fact, it is. To solve for IRR in this equation is not straightforward because there's no algebraic formula. There's no closed form equation, no algebraic formula, that we can use to determine IRR. We can't just plug values in, and it will give us a value of IRR. So instead, we will rely-- fortunately, the spreadsheets we use have a function that will calculate this for us using an algorithm or an iterative technique. So it will try different values, different rates, and determine the one that actually gets closest to the net present value equal to 0. And Excel claims to be accurate, that this algorithm is accurate within 0.00001%. That's very accurate, very accurate for our purposes of determining a range of returns that are acceptable for our investors. So we will rely on this algorithm, this spreadsheet function, to calculate the IRR for us. So the technique that is used, it requires a starting value to start the algorithm. Excel uses 0.1, or 10%, which is a fairly common general discount rate. And it tries 20 different values to start with. And if it can't find through it's technique a solution where the net present value equals 0, it will give you this NUM! Error. So if you get that, don't worry. You can still try something else. And that is you can give it a guess. Maybe your IRR is actually very high. And it just didn't go high enough or low enough. So you can give it a guess. Or if you get a result that seems strange, you might want to provide a guess. So the way you would actually type it into your spreadsheet is the function name is IRR. You give it a range of cells. And you can-- it's not required, so I have it in italics here. But you can give it a guess for a rate that you think is close. And in fact, picking an approximate rate of return that your investors would expect as a target is a good place to start with. So you would actually type it in. You would give it a cell range. You might give it a guess. Note that unlike NPV, we actually include the period zero cash flow in our range of cells. So the net present value, remember, it assumed that the cash flows happened at the end of the period. Therefore, we had to add in period zero separately. But internal rate of return, since it needs to incorporate all the investments in its calculation, it allows you, and in fact, it requires you to include period zero cash flows in your range of cells. So let's illustrate this using the two examples we used with NPV. I've colored the cash flows so I can refer to them-- blue and green here. And remember, the blue ones, with the higher magnitude coming a little later, at a 10% discount rate had a higher NPV of 32.1. So that created more value, even though they both created positive value and are good investments. Let's calculate the IRR now. And note that this time, we include the period zero. So we include all of these cells. And it's a simple formula. You just type those cells as the argument for the function IRR. And it gives you the internal rate of return of 16.5. Now, 16.5 is higher than 10. We would expect that, remember? Because the IRR is where NPV becomes o and starts going negative. Since it's positive at 10%, we would expect IRR to be higher than 10%. And we can see that we can safely invest in this. Even if our investors would expect up to 15, 16, or close to 16.5%, we would still be safe making this investment. What's the IRR for the bottom one? What's the range of values for which we feel safe investing here? And again, we type in that range of cells. This time its row seven, but the same columns. And we get a value of 16.5. So that's interesting. For the same range of values, we would invest in both. And both of them become unattractive above the same higher rate. Even though the NPV at 10% is different. So what's happening here? Well, I find it's often useful when thinking about IRR to also plot the net present value for various rates. And you can then clearly see where the IRR is. Where the NPV is equal to 0, that's the internal rate of return. And we can see that they both cross at 16.5. But beyond this rate here, we would not invest. Anything down here, we would invest, and including our target. Our target is here at 10%, right? At 10%, we would invest. It's lower than the IRR. And the NPV gives us additional information that at our target, this blue set of cash flows gives us a higher value of 32.1, compared with 24.6. So we can say which one's better, given a target rate of return. But remember, they both make the same decision that these are both attractive investments. And you should do both if you can. Now, we may be tempted, when we need to, when we can't invest in everything we want, to rank investments. And so you may want to consider, should I use NPV or IRR when making an investment ranking and when I'm trying to determine which one creates most value. So I kept the same values in the top here. If you go back, you can see that the same value is in the top. But on the bottom, instead of having a set of cash flows over time that declines, I instead say, let's have a 0 for three years and then a big payout here at the end. So I've changed the bottom cash flow. And note that the values at the top are the same. But with this big payout, much bigger magnitude payout, coming later, it actually creates more value. NPV is higher at 10% than in the original blue one, even though the IRR is lower. If you were to rank it based on IRR, the higher percent being better, you would pick the blue as being more valuable. So what's going on here? If we plot these again-- it's always useful to plot the NPV for different values-- we can see that the internal rate of return is higher here for the blue one than the green one because the green one has a steeper slope. So the IRR is lower here. Although, that steeper slope also means that at our target of 10%, it creates more value. So if we had to rank and pick them, assuming that our discount rate and our expected rate from our investors is 10%, we would pick the green one. But remember, both of these are good investments at 10%. We should do both if we can. But the IRR and the NPV may give different rankings, if you use the values. And if that's the case and you need to rank projects, then always you should pick a discount rate and use the net present value, because it calculates the actual value being created for investors at a given expectation of the discount rate. If you wanted to determine the point at which the trade off happens-- it's kind of hard to read this here-- what you do, this point here is actually 12.5, at which one project becomes more favorable. So in that range of 12.5 to 16.5, the blue is actually preferable to the green. To calculate that point, it's kind of a subtle thing, b you would take the difference in the two cash flows. So let's say take the green ones minus the blue ones. And we get that it's 50 less in period one, 75 less in periods two and three. And then it's that big payout, 250 more in period four. The internal rate of return of those cash flows is 12.4%. That actually gives us that point at which the one becomes preferable over the other. So that's a subtle point if you want to determine the ranges for which each project is preferred. So now, let's use IRR to make a decision with the example we've been using this far. That's to Plata Solar investment in automation equipment. And here's our free cash flows. Again, the same as before. And in this case, we don't need to assume a discount rate. We don't have to make an assumption of a discount rate to calculate the NPV, although it's good to remember that the target rate of return for investors is 15%. So let's see the range for which we feel comfortable making this investment. Well, if we calculate the IRR of these values down here, that gives us an IRR of 10.2%. That's less than 15%. And that's pretty far from our target rate of return. So 10% is a lot less than 15. So we probably are not going to feel comfortable making this investment, given the expectations of our investors. And again, that agrees with the decision we had before. The NPV at 15% is negative. We shouldn't invest. But now it tells us we can't even be comfortable because it's 5% different than the expectations. So that's not a very good investment. So we see the IRR is a very viable figure of merit. It's similar to NPV. Same advantages, but it gives us an additional advantage of not having to pick a discount rate. Instead, we can see the range of rates for which this is attractive and see if our investors would feel comfortable with making this investment. However, it is not as effective for ranking among good projects. If you can't pursue all of the good projects and you need to rank them, you wouldn't want to use the IRR value because it can distort the value creation around the target rate of return that your investors expect. So it's better, if you're trying to rank projects, to use net present value with an assumption of a discount rate. In addition, we didn't talk about this in detail, but with some cash flows, you may not get an IRR for a certain really good investments. The net present value may not even reach 0. Or for really bad ones, it may not go above 0. And for some funky cash flows where they mix signs going positive, negative, positive, negative, you can actually have the net present value equal 0 for several different values. I didn't go into those specific examples. But know that that can happen. And you can always safely make an investment decision based on net present value, assuming a discount rate. So NPV and IRR are the fundamental discounted cash flow analysis techniques that we've considered. Oops, my slide went forward here. So we've now covered the bulk of the discounted cash flow analysis techniques. Those of you who have seen our Plata Solar example may be wondering, is there a possible way we can find to invest in that automation equipment. Let's say you were working for the company and you really want to invest in this equipment. How can we do that? Well, remember in the previous lesson, I talked about how working capital can make or break your initiative. Well, let's think again as supply chain professionals here, how can we think about this investment in a broader context. And in fact, by investing in the automation equipment, not only do we reduce the set up cost. But we could probably reduce the set up time. If it's lower set up time, that means we need less buffer stock throughout our production process. Therefore, lower work in process inventory. So assuming we can reduce inventory by $10,000 in this example, let's plug this in to our free cash flow projections. And these are all the same up here. These are the same. But we're now saying we have an additional decrease in inventory. So the reduction in inventory, which becomes a positive cash flow when you subtract it. So that means our $30,000 investment becomes $20,000. So we reduced our up front because we freed up the capital from that inventory reduction. I did add it in at the end here because assuming that our equipment is no longer useful at the end of year three-- which we had to assume that it's not useful at the end of year three-- and its salvage value is 0, then we would have to buy more equipment to keep that inventory reduction. That's a future decision. So I'm going to assume we would make that in the future. And instead, assume that we would return back to the status quo. And therefore, inventory would go up if we did not further invest in more equipment. But let's see if that inventory reduction up front-- which reduces our upfront cost, but also-- 20,000 is less than the 30,000 before, but also reduces our future one. Is that earlier cash flow going to make a difference? So again, plugging in the NPV for 1.5: 15. 15% is the investor's expectations. Years one and two are the same. Year three is lower. But our upfront investment is also lower. And the result gives us-- let's hear a little drum roll-- a positive 1,052. So we would actually invest. So this demonstrates that working capital is an important thing to consider in your supply chain designs. It can make or break your decisions here. And it also illustrates the value of cash earlier versus later. Here, the cash is freed up in year zero immediately in return for having to invest again further in year three. But it's better to free up that $10,000 for three years. It really makes this initiative worthwhile.

## Terminal Value
OK, no more figures of merit. We've now covered the fundamental concepts and calculations to evaluate our supply chain initiatives. However we've considered those supply chain cash flows for a given period through period t. Some of our supply chain initiatives may have longer term value and we still want to apply the concepts of time value of money and discounting to that longer term value which we call terminal value. Before we get to terminal value, let's revisit salvage value which again we've introduced before as the proceeds that come from selling off fixed assets or recovering working capital at the end of our cash flow projections. So if it's assets like property plant and equipment, one thing we didn't specify exactly earlier and didn't cover is there may be tax implications. So if the sale price is not equal to the book value that we've depreciated those assets down to, then there would be taxes that aren't captured in the Notepad. Remember the Notepad captures our income statement and this is related to the balance sheet, so we would want to make sure that any salvage value accounts for the tax implications. So it's the sale price minus taxes, the tax rate times the difference between the sale price and the book value. So if we sell our assets for more than book value, this tax rate would be positive so we would have to pay taxes. It's also the case that if our sale price is below book value, that would give us a negative value in this term here and therefore be a positive addition meaning that reduces our tax burden. For working capital, we also have to think about that at the end of the projected period t because if an initiative ends, then the working capital requirements will return to the original levels before the initiative began. So in that case there is a recovery of that working capital at the end of period t. To illustrate this, let's go back to the example of White Nile. Remember we were the online retailer that is building a new warehouse to provide better service, and increase sales from that better service. We've captured all the cash flows here and if you note, we did talk about salvage value here. So we bought this warehouse, we built the warehouse and added equipment for $5 million, we depreciated it for three years using straight line depreciation and the straight line depreciation was applied over 10 years so it's $500,000 a year. And if you take that $5 million minus the $1.5 million that's of depreciation, we get this $3.5 million which is actually the book value. So this one would not need to be adjusted for taxes but if we believe that we would sell it for more or less than $3.5 million, we'd have to adjust it for the taxes. We've also got the inventory we put in the warehouse in the beginning and we recovered that inventory at the end because it returns to original levels, assuming that the warehouse goes away. We also now have the tools to be able to evaluate things. Before we just projected the cash flows and so we've got our bottom line free cash flows here. Let's go ahead and evaluate this initiative and see if it's a good idea. We need one more piece of information though to do that and that's the discount rate. So assuming a discount rate of 10%, why don't you pause the video and calculate the net present value and the internal rate of return. OK hopefully you've done your calculations. Let's begin with net present value using the discount rate of 10%. That value is 116. So if it's a positive value we would decide to proceed with this initiative. However it's not a very big value, 116 compared to the $5.6 million up front that we're having to put into the warehouse and the inventory so it seems like it's not a very strong investment. It meets their criteria but it's not a very high return, not a very high value above what the expectations of our investors are. And the IRS shows this, right? If the discount rate of 10% it's a feasible project but if we even had a discount rate of 11% a little bit higher, this would no longer be an attractive initiative for our investors. However, this is a warehouse that would probably last longer than three years. So we would may want to capture that longer term value of the warehouse. That's an example of one of the kinds of value that's created over the long term, is that we may have a supply chain that creates value beyond the period t where we're projecting our cash flows. So it may be assets like this warehouse that continue to create value as long as we maintain them properly. Even more important, there are some managerial changes that we often make in our supply chain that wouldn't have a life span at all and wouldn't require any maintenance but they continue to create value long after our period that we may be projecting cash flows, such as an inventory policy change, reduction of a stock keeping unit that we no longer will carry, we may change our transportation mode mix that causes a different cost basis that would continue as long as that policies in place. So those longer term values we want to make sure we capture as well. So basically we're thinking about two time spans when we're doing our cash flow projections. We have through period t where we specify unique cash flows through period t. Anything beyond period t, we would have to assume that they are stable cash flows beyond that period into the future and then calculate a value of those stable cash flows. So basically you're defining a period t in which there are some unique aspects. Once you get to that point and they're stable, then we'll try to summarize all of those future cash flows with the terminal value. So the terminal value is also called residual value. It's the present value of all the cash flows that occur after the projected period or beyond period t. There are a couple questions. First of all, how long? There are two options to consider here. One is a perpetuity, which estimates the value of stable cash flows that continue indefinitely or infinitely. The other is estimating stable cash flows for a definite period time into the future. The second question, is how stable? We can consider a situation where those stable cash flows don't grow at all or they could be stable but growing in a linear way. Now we're not going to assume--the safer assumption in our calculations is to assume no growth and we're going to go with that. Trying to assume what the growth would be in the future requires more thought and so we're not going to focus on that here and we're going to take the more conservative approach and assume for all of our exercises, that there's no growth. But we do want to capture that value well into the future with a perpetuity or an annuity. So the question is, how do we calculate that value? So beginning with the perpetuity it's in some ways a concept because it's saying that you're going to theoretically receive cash forever and it's difficult to think about something going to infinity but in mathematics we do this often, we have what we call an infinite series. And in this case, it's an infinite series of a cash flow c that keeps happening in period one, two, all the way out to infinity. We can't even write this out because we can't write an infinite number of terms but it's a mathematical series that we can calculate easily the value and that is because it converges to the value of c over r. So the cash flow divided by the discount rate gives us the value of a series of cash flows that would happen forever into the future. So it's actually a lot simpler than you might think. An annuity, it's the same kind of thing, you're having a fixed sum c that comes each year but it's for a specified number of years. So in this case again you get this value c all the way through period t but then it stops, it doesn't go to infinity. To calculate that it's a little bit trickier but actually we can use the perpetuity to help do this, so if we assume that we have a perpetuity beginning in period one so basically if we say in the present value that in period one it begins and we have another one in period two the way out to infinity, that value is c over r. So that's starting at time zero, the present. If we had a perpetuity beginning starting at period t, so all the cash flows beyond t so we have t plus 1 and t plus 2, and so forth on to infinity, the value of that perpetuity at time t would also be c over r but the value in today's terms at time zero, would be c over are discounted by that period t to be the time zero. Now using those two assumptions we can calculate the value of annuity because an annuity is exactly all those cash flows that happen between now and t, so if we subtract this minus the discounted value here, we get the exact value of this annuity in between. We can also use a spreadsheet function The spreadsheet function present value pv you have to input the rate r, the number of periods, t, and the payment, c. And that will calculate the value of an annuity. It actually though calculates the value you would pay to purchase the annuity, so the present value of an annuity is actually a negative of the present value function. It's a bit of a quirky thing with a spreadsheet that it's used for a lot of calculations for retirement and so forth, where they're saying how much would you pay to buy an annuity? In this case we're looking to estimate the present value of the annuity so we have to do a negative value of that. So let's do a simple example. Let's assume c equals 10. The value of a perpetuity and let's assume we have a discount rate of 10%, actually let's say c equals 100 and we have a 10% discount rate. Our perpetuity value would be equal to 100 divided by 0.10 equals 1,000. Simple calculation. For an annuity, considering algebraically we could type it into Excel. And again we have our rate of 0.10, we have 10 periods in the future let's assume it's still a cash flow of 100. You'll see that that present value is a lot lower than it is for perpetuity because in paying out the annuity, you also utilize the capital and it goes down to 0. So you don't need as much capital up front to keep the payment going forever. So it's a lower present value than the value of a perpetuity. So let's apply this to White Nile. Remember we had our warehouse that was going to be sold after three years at book value and we had a bit of a marginal investment. It's something worth pursuing but it's not a very strong proposition. Let's change now to assume that we're going to have the value continue in perpetuity. And let's assume also that when we estimated our warehouse operations before, we also included maintenance and so it's counting all of the cash flows that would be continuing to add value for this warehouse in perpetuity. So here's what the projections look like. Now I've had to do something, I've had to extend this out to period t. Why is that? Well because we have our warehouse coming up front and we have the depreciation that goes for 10 years and after 10 years we have a change in our cash flows so they remain stable through period 10 but it isn't stable into the period 11 because that depreciation goes away. You see? It's gone here. All the other cash flows we're assuming, continue on but that one changes. And from that point forward, from period 11 on, so after a period 10, everything is stable and we're assuming it's not going to grow. And so we can use this to calculate our perpetuity. The difference ends up being, if you notice here, our cash flows up through period 10 is a 1.60 million and 910,000 afterwards and the difference is because without the depreciation, our taxes go up because we no longer can discount or deduct the depreciation and reduce our tax burden so our taxes go up and therefore our cash flows go down in perpetuity. Now if you see here, we have our discount rate of 10%, take that 910 divided by the discount rate of r, 10%, and that gives us a perpetuity value, a terminal value, of $9.1 million. Now we add this at the end of period 10 at the end of t, so we add the free cash flow in period 10 with the terminal value to get what I'm calling our evaluation cash flows at the bottom here. So this is now the series of cash flows that we're going to use to evaluate this initiative. So you can might want to stop again and use that bottom line evaluation cash flows and calculate the net present value in IRR and see what you get. OK hopefully with the perpetuity, you're able to come up with a net present value of $4,422,000. So it is definitely higher, a lot higher, than the situation with the salvage value. And the IRR are is also much higher as well, this is a much more robust investment when we consider the perpetuity value that's created by setting up a warehouse. But notice it's not as much as the 9.1 million here because we are discounting this to present value, so you see that that's far in the future. So discounting to today's value, it doesn't add $9 million, it adds around $4 million but it's still a significant amount to make this initiative worthwhile. You may not be comfortable saying a warehouse would last in perpetuity but we can use an annuity to maybe make an assumption that's more reasonable and again assuming our maintenance is included here, let's assume for 20 years the warehouse is in place for 20 years and calculate the value using an annuity. So again, we've got our salvage value, our perpetuity value and we have our annuity now and we're assuming there's 20 periods total so it's 10 periods beyond period t. So an annuity for 10 periods beyond period t of 910 so it's 10 more periods at 10% is a little over $5 million. Again we take that terminal value, add it to their free cash flows in the last period t to get our evaluation cash flows. And again we apply the net present value and IRR to that series of cash flows. Pause, see what you come up with. You should get a value for the annuity of a little over $3 million. So you can see that by assuming it doesn't go to forever, it is less than the perpetuity, which makes sense but it's not a lot less. Even though this value went from $9 million down to $5 million it happens far in the future so the discounting makes it so that there's not as big of a difference and it's still a very robust investment to consider for our investors. So we've now showed so that there can be long term value to your supply chain initiatives and we've come up with a way to calculate that long term value and to pull it into our analysis by using the terminal value.

## Inventory Holding Cost
We close lesson 1 on supply chain cash flows by considering specifically the working capital cash flows in the supply chain. We'll close this lesson by also looking at working capital, and specifically inventory, and considering the concept of inventory holding cost, which is used extensively in designing the physical flows in our supply chain. We'll see how that maps to the financial flows of our discounted cash flow analysis. To begin, what are the potential costs of holding inventory? Well, first of all, there's the capital that's tied up in the inventory, and that's the opportunity cost of capital. Rather than buying inventory, we could utilize that capital to generate returns in other ways in our firm. There's also operating costs. When we have inventory, there's going to be inherently warehousing costs, special equipment that's needed, obviously labor to handle it and keep track of it, and perhaps even some direct costs if we have to dispose of things at the end or hire somebody to do that on our behalf to scrap the inventory. Finally, there's another category of relevant cash flows or costs that are related to holding inventory that deal with lost revenue. So inventory over time can become obsolete or it can depreciate in real market value-- not as a depreciation of a fixed asset, because this is not a fixed asset, but it can actually lose market value. In the future, some of our items may not be as valuable, because consumers may not pay as much for them. They may deteriorate, such as fresh goods or anything with a shelf life. There may be shrinkage from theft or from damage. And finally, there could even be costs of insuring against lost revenue. These costs on the bottom, the operating and lost revenue costs, we'll lump together and call non-capital holding costs. The inventory holding cost is often turned into rate-- a rate that's a percentage of the inventory cost of the value of the inventory. And that inventory holding cost rate is used in making many inventory management calculations. Examples include economic order quantity or setting safety stock. So using that inventory holding cost rate helps us design the physical flows in our supply chain. That rate is, again, as I mentioned before, a percentage of the inventory value. And there's no standard rate. It could be as low as 5% of the value of the inventory, or it could be as high as 50%. And it could vary by different products in your firm. For example, some of them may be more perishable than others or may lose value quicker than others. But a common rule of thumb that's used in the industry is 25% if you don't know any different. And why does this rate vary so much? Well, part of it is actually very easy to calculate-- the capital cost part of this, the rate of the capital cost, is also the discount rate. So the opportunity cost of capital is exactly our discount rate of our firm. But the non-capital costs-- those operating costs and especially the lost revenue potential-- these are all estimated. And so that value, that percent, can vary widely. This inventory holding cost rate is often used to calculate cost savings when you make an inventory reduction. So here's an example. If you were to reduce inventory by 100,000 and your holding cost is 25%, of which 10% of this is capital cost and 15% is non-capital costs-- operating and lost revenue-- you might see someone calculate the savings of that inventory reduction as being 25% or 0.25 times 100,000, and that's 25,000. The question is, how would we incorporate such a holding cost in our discounted cash flow analysis? Is all of that 25,000 when you calculate it using the inventory holding cost rate-- is it relevant? And does it happen one time, is it an annuity, or is it a perpetuity? Well, first of all, in terms of relevant inventory holding costs, the capital cost is not a cash flow that's relevant for discounted cash flow projections. That inventory reduction is captured fully in the net change in working capital. If we reduce inventory, we reduce our working capital requirements, and that captures the amount fully. And the opportunity cost of the capital of the returns that would come from raising that capital by reducing inventory upfront is implicitly included in the discount rate. However, the non-capital costs-- those operating and lost revenue costs-- are relevant and projected cash flows. They're things that you want to definitely incorporate when you're coming up with your projections. So effectively, when you reduce inventory, you get that working capital cash flow upfront to reinvest, and you avoid operating expenses or lost revenue in the future, and so you'll increase your net operating profit after taxes over time. The question is, how long will that non-capital inventory holding cost be in place? Is it one time, an annuity, or a perpetuity? Well, it's not one time, because as long as the inventory reduction remains in place, the non-capital cost savings will affect our incremental income statement in each of those periods. If the reason is temporary, such as remember in the Plata Solar example, there was an automation equipment that would have to be replaced-- the inventory level is low as long as long as that automation equipment is in place, but as soon as it goes away, then the inventory returns to the current level. In that situation, the non-capital cost savings are applied as long as that inventory reduction is in place and go away when the inventory returns. But if the inventory reduction is permanent and you make a policy change and set inventory levels differently for the future as long as you can foresee and there's no reason they would go away, then that upfront working capital, that cash that's freed up, it implicitly generates returns in perpetuity. It will continue to be available to generate returns at the discount rate. And if that's the case, then the non-capital costs should also be applied in perpetuity, because as long as the capital is freed up and the inventory reduction remains in place, then those non-capital costs are also being avoided. Let's reconsider our example for Yellow River. Remember, this is a long-term policy change where the SKU, the Stock Keeping Unit, is taken away, because it's a slow-moving product. And we see that-- remember that the revenue goes down, and therefore, the cogs are reduced. But the net effect is we're going to have less profits, but we're reducing our working capital by a significant amount. And if we projected this in our free cash flows, we see that our net operating profits after taxes are down by 26,000 each year, but we get 240,000 in capital freed up initially. Is this a good initiative? Well, looking at it over three years, it's a very good initiative. Because you can see, even if you discounted these future cash flows, they would be somewhere around 60,000, 70,000. That's definitely far less than the 240,000 we get up front. But remember, this is going to be in perpetuity, because you reduce the Stock Keeping Unit now and it won't come back. Therefore, all of the sales for that particular product are going to be gone in perpetuity. So instead, you need to apply it this way. And then assuming our discount rate of 10%, that perpetuity of lost profits or less profits becomes a terminal value of negative 255,000. Adding that at the end of our period t-- period 3, in this case-- we can see that there's a much bigger negative impact over the long term from reducing the Stock Keeping Unit. Now let's see if it's going to more than offset the cash we get upfront. We now need to calculate net present value to determine if that's the case. You might want to pause and do that really quickly. OK. So the net present value-- if you type in 10% of the cash flows that are here in the future, and then we add in-- instead of subtract out, we're getting money up front-- we add in the 240,000 at the end. That gives us a net present value of negative 15,000. So in that case, we wouldn't invest. It doesn't pass the net present value test. If you did the IRR of the whole set of cash flows there, you'd get a value of 12.57%, which is greater than 10%. Which if we applied the rule from before, the IRR being above the discount rate says we should invest. So what's going on here? Well, actually-- and I note at the bottom here, if you didn't round off and use these numbers on the template here and you had a spreadsheet that was calculated in the gross margin exactly, these are rounded numbers. You might get these numbers down below. So what's really going on here is that the previous criterion was used for investments, and we're not making an investment. In fact, we're getting money upfront. We're divesting to get the 240,000 upfront. We're divesting from this Stock Keeping Unit to get money upfront. So while the MPV still calculates the value correctly, the IRR gives us a different interpretation. Because effectively, we're raising capital and paying it back with less profits in the future. So it's not good to raise capital at 12% if our discount rate is 10%. If we're normally raising capital with an expectation of getting 10% returns, we shouldn't raise capital at 12%. And you can see this by the curve. Before, our investment curves all looked like this, where the lower the discount rate, the higher the MPV, because we could more than exceed the ability to raise capital at that rate. But in this case, since we're raising capital, if we can get money at 5% or even 10%, that's better than if we generate capital by reducing the Stock Keeping Unit, which is effectively giving us money at 12%. So it's a little different when you're not making an investment to apply the IRR rule. However, in both situations, net present value being above or below 0 gives us the right decision of whether to act or, in this case, not to act. Now, we are missing one component. Remember, we have those non-capital costs that aren't explicitly accounted for here. We have considered the lost profits, but we have some savings. And so let's assume our non-capital holding costs are even a small rate of 5%. Before, we had an example at 15%. Let's just assume a 5% non-capital cost of holding, those warehousing costs, the lost revenue potential that comes from that. Then applying that, we see the 180,000 of inventory times 5% reduces our operating expenses by 9,000. Now our reduction in profit is only 19-- or actually, if we see, I added a decimal point down here-- 19.3000. So instead of 25,000 26,000 less profits each year, it's less. Therefore, our perpetuity now becomes 192,000, and therefore, the evaluation cash flow is not quite as negative. And if we calculate the net present value, it now becomes positive. And it says in this case, it is worth acting. When we incorporate those non-capital inventory holding costs to the capital we free up upfront and in general the capital for not only the inventory, but also the receivables and payables here. This ends up being a good way to generate money for our firm. And in fact, we are raising capital effectively at a 1.55% rate, which is really good compared to the 10% that we are promising to our investors now. So you can see the perpetuity helps us calculate the long-term impact of certain initiatives, such as a SKU reduction or inventory reduction. And it also-- we see an example of how sometimes inventory reductions that free up capital upfront, the net present value still calculates our value correctly, but the IRR is interpreted a little bit differently.

## Key Points
So I know this has been a relatively long lesson. I've introduced you to a lot of financial concepts and tools. But I'm hoping that these will be important for you in your supply chain professional practice, because they really help you to capture the value and analyze the value of the different supply chain designs you're coming up with. Let's go over a few key points to help pull that knowledge together. First of all, this lesson focused on how to assess the cash flows you came up with based on knowledge from the previous lesson and determine figures of merit to guide your decisions, whether it's investments or other supply chain designs that may include cost reductions or capital reductions. And the fundamental value we use, the fundamental figure of merit, is the net present value. It tells us the exact value of the initiative based on the cash flows we've projected for a given discount rate. Now, the weakness, the one weakness of net present value, is that it considers a given discount rate and given cash flows. So to mitigate the risk of picking the wrong discount rate, we use IRR, Internal Rate of Return, which tells us the range of discount rates that give us a net present value that's positive and, therefore, a good decision. And the wider that range, and especially the further it is from our current assumption around a discount rate or the return expected by investors, the more robust that decision is. In addition, we've assumed that all of our cash flows are deterministic. And they may not be. So the payback period, even though it doesn't incorporate time value of money, does give you a sense of how risky a project is, because if you get your cash back sooner, you don't face the risk of the future not playing out like you planned. And by using these analysis approaches, you're really evaluating decisions based on the approaches of modern business, that these techniques grew in popularity from 4% in the 1950s to over 90% in the late 1980s. So you've now learned the techniques that are used by almost every business in making decisions. And in fact, a very common financial textbook says that it's not an exaggeration to say that these discounted cash flow analysis approaches that you've learned are the backbone of modern finance and even modern business. Modern business decisions are really driven by appropriate discounted cash flow analysis. And the reason that's the case is because discounted cash flow analysis actually quantifies the value we're creating for our investors based on making good investments, based on determining appropriate capital reductions, even if they are offset by negative cash flows in the future, and by assessing the value created by cost savings. And importantly, it allows us to combine all of these things together into one projection and calculate the value based on net present value. It also helps us to really capture the full value of inventory reductions. We saw in the last segment there are some weaknesses in applying an inventory holding cost to calculate savings. But by using discounted cash flows, we can really understand the true value of the capital we're freeing up to invest. And in doing so, we're really using the IRR, internal rate of return, to determine the effective rate that we're generating money at for our firm. So we're freeing up capital. And that capital acquisition-- it's not really acquiring it, but we're freeing it up in our firm-- if it's lower than our cost of capital, that means that's a better way to generate money than to go out to investors or to banks or equity investors to further put money into the company. So that inventory reduction that frees up capital, the IRR and net present value, these discounted cash flow techniques, really help us estimate the true value of that capital reduction. And also, in addition to the capital reduction, there can be a perpetuity of non-capital costs, operating expenses that hit the income statement and increase our net operating profits, because we have less cost. So make sure to capture all of these values when you're making an inventory reduction. Now, there are some key aspects of discounted cash flow analysis we didn't cover. We talked about inflation not being something that we incorporated directly. That is an important thing to consider. And you need to understand that nominal cash flows need to go with nominal rates, and real cash flows with real rates. But you'll need to look elsewhere to see exactly how to apply that. We didn't have time to cover it. In addition, we didn't talk about perpetual growth. We talked about the importance of perpetuities. But we assumed they were going to be flat. Perpetual growth has another set of assumptions you'll have to be careful in making. But it could create more value for your initiative. A big thing we didn't incorporate is risk. We assumed everything is deterministic-- all the cash flows are exactly what we say they're going to be into the future. And there is definitely a whole lesson's worth of material on how to effectively incorporate risk in discounted cash flow analysis. Finally, we focused on evaluating one initiative or one investment. But when you're having several projects, and especially if capital is limited, which it often is, the ranking approaches and the determination of how you ration that capital to different projects merits a lot more teaching, because there's a lot of different aspects you need to incorporate. In addition if you have mutually exclusive options-- if you can do a or b, but not both, especially if they have different time horizons-- there's also some additional considerations you want to make when applying discounted cash flow analysis. So we didn't cover them here. You may need to look elsewhere for some of those specific aspects if you're going further with this knowledge. But I wanted to tie this back to the supply chain design that we've been teaching throughout this whole course, and that the objective functions often used in supply chain design don't properly quantify the value created. They're really good at capturing revenues and costs, whether it's cost of goods sold or a sell in general or administrative expenses. But oftentimes, they ignore taxes, including them important tax shield that comes from depreciation of fixed assets. And they often ignore the time value of money, which is usually a little more complicated to incorporate those into the design approaches. And so just realize that we're not not necessarily capturing all the relevant cash flows and not incorporating the time value of money. In addition, they often don't capture the balance sheet very well. It'll mix things like a full fixed cost of capital exponential, like a warehouse, with short-term costs and revenues in the income statement into one value. And also, the inventory holding cost, as we saw in the last segment, oftentimes savings from an inventory reduction, is determined by calculating-- of applying the inventory holding cost rate to the inventory reduced. And we saw that it's better to capture that with more clear assumptions than discounted cash flow analysis to capture all of the relevant cash flows and the perpetuity of benefits. However, these objective functions may lead to very appropriate designs. They're there for a reason. They're appropriate for designing the supply chain. Just at the end, once you've done your design, go back and use your discounted cash flow analysis approach, as the knowledge you have now to quantify the real value that's being created for a firm's investors. And therefore, you get credit for all of the value you're creating through your design efforts. So in practicing these, obviously there's practice problems. And using the discussion, it's very important to get a lot of practice, because these techniques are fairly new and we haven't covered them extensively in the rest of the course. And we're not going to visit them again. So definitely practice doing this. This can be, hopefully, a very useful part of your professional career going forward, because now you have the ability to count all of the huge pile of cash that you're creating in your supply chain designs. Good luck.
