# week02 lesson1 supply chain network design

(SC2x video lecture transcript)

## Introduction
In this lesson, we're going to combine the different techniques we've learned in the two previous lessons into one model. We'll take the network optimization we learned two lessons ago, and combine it with the facility location models we just learned the previous lesson and tie those together into what's known as a supply chain network design model. Now we're going to use this through an example, and it should be somewhat familiar to you. It's an extension of the New England Root Beer Distributors case we've been talking about all this whole week. So we're going to call this NERD four, and there's a case study write up attached to this video in the reference section. If you have not read that yet, please do. Let me just go over the case objectives. The objective of the case is to understand how NERD, a distributor of root beer in the Northeast of the United States, should explore and restructure its network. And there are two main things they're looking at is one, should they source from this new supplier that's in Bellows Falls? And should they reduce some of their distribution centers? Remember from reading the case, you'll remember that they grew those DCs through acquisitions. They didn't necessarily want to open up distribution centers always where they were, but they acquired a company and that's where their facilities were. So that's why they kept it. So some of the details, we know that NERD sources its product, which are barrels of root beer from a single plant in Scranton, Pennsylvania. And it ships its products by truckload carrier to five distribution centers located in Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and New Hampshire. The product is stored at these DCs, and is then distributed by a local carrier to the 12 different cities it sells-- it has markets in. And each city is supposed to be dedicated to a single distribution center, but if you read the case, you'll see that's not always the case. It doesn't always happen that way even though it's supposed to. The distribution centers vary in size, there are three large ones that can handle 1,000 barrels a week and they're in Boston, Providence, and Worcester. And then there's two smaller ones that handle 500 barrels a week in Nashua and Springfield. So this is what your network looks like. Product comes from Scranton, delivered to all five of the DCs, and then they in turn, are supposed to deliver to their primary cities. And you can see that each city is dedicated to one distribution center. However, as I said earlier, it doesn't always work like that. Sometimes, Springfield might send some cases of beer up to Brattleboro or down to somewhere else. So this is how it's supposed to go, but we'll talk more about that. So the questions we want to consider. Is it the right number of DCs? Right now, I've got five. These red ones. These red cities in Nashua, Worcester, Boston, Providence, and Springfield. Should we consider sourcing from Bellows Falls? And just so you know, this is where Bellows Falls is. That's where the other plant is. Should I ship from there to any of my DCs, all of my DCs, some of my DCs, how much? And then does this configuration, that network I have, does it provides sufficient level of service? And we'll talk more about that. And then finally, does this current configuration-- can it handle an increase in demand? What if my sale for root beer goes up? Can my network handle that? Am I building a solution that's very fragile to the existing demand? So these are the questions we want to solve. We're going to formulate a model, but the first step we need to do is figure out the data. So we need to collect some data. So that's what we'll do next.

## Collecting the Data
So now, let's talk about collecting the data. And the first question you probably have is, what data do I need? Well, there's three big buckets. The first, you need to collect the transportation data. The costs-- understand whether they're fixed and variable. The capacities. And you need to make sure you understand the different components of transportation-- the inbound, remember, things from plants to DC's, as well as the outbound, from DC's to cities-- because they're handled and managed very differently. You need to capture facility data. Again, the costs, the capacities, and you need to understand how they differ from the plants, the DC's, and the cities. Understand how they differ and where they differ. We also need to collect the current product flows. The actual inbound flows to DC's, actual outbound flows from DC's to cities. Because this gives us something to compare to. So let's go through each of these. First, transportation. Big component of a network design. Let's talk about the easy part first-- the local outbound delivery. If you look at the case, what they describe is that everything from the distribution centers to the cities is handled by a local courier that doesn't have any capacity issues, doesn't have a fixed cost, and is simply charging $0.55 a barrel per mile. Easy, because we're already in a variable cost component in terms of dollars per barrel. All I need is a distance matrix. So I go to history. I look at my distances delivered from each of the facilities to each of the cities. If I have history, I take the average, and I see how widely they vary. But I look at each one of those. And so I have my distance matrix. I need to make sure that, for example, from Boston to Boston, that I have an actual distance traveled from my DC to all my customers in Boston won't be 0, like we've done the previous models. That was just for simplicity. Here, you're going to have some number there. They're going to drive some distance. So at the end of the day, we'll have a dollar per barrel, because I'll multiply each one of these lanes by this distance here. All right. That's the outbound. That's the easy one. What about the inbound data? This is from the plant to the distribution centers, handled, now by a carrier. Now, the problem here is the costs are based on shipments, not by unit. And so the shipments have a different cost structure. And truckload shipping-- the same thing with LTL-- they have slightly different components. They might have a fixed cost. And this is in that upper right side, where you see a fixed cost here. This red line. And that might also have a variable cost. But it could also have something like this blue line-- let me just erase those-- where you have a minimum charge. So regardless if you deliver it 10 miles, 100 miles, up to, say, 250 miles, you've got to pay this flat fee. Similar to a price structure in a taxicab. Then, above that, you pay a variable cost. So you have all these different cost structures. And the question is, how do I turn this into a cost per shipment into a cost per unit? That's the challenge. But wait. Don't start yet, because it gets even more complicated. There's some lanes where you know and have history. And there's some lanes where you don't. So let's start with the easiest case. Let's say you have history. And in this case, we have the plant in Scranton. And we know it's going to all the DC's. What am I going to do? I'm going to look at all the historical transportation data. And for each shipment, I'm going to find what did I pay for it, from, say, the Scranton plant to the DC in Boston? Find all the costs. Find the volume-- the number of barrels that went in each of those. And find an average. And so here, I'll have an average cost per barrel for going from the plant in Scranton to Boston. This is what I will use as my variable cost for my inbound transportation. I'll do that for each one of the lanes. Pretty easy. Is it perfect? No. But it's a good approximation. It's the best you can do. You don't want to simply use the lowest possible cost you can find, because you're no guarantee that you're going to actually get that in practice. OK. That's the easy one. What do you do with lanes that you don't have any history on? This Bellow Falls plant, the one up in Vermont that we don't know anything about yet, we don't have any history for shipping down to distribution centers. Well, there's three ways you can look at this. One is ask your existing carriers. Go out and say, hey, I'm thinking of moving something from Bellow Falls to these five different locations. What's my rate? What you'll probably get are what are known as retail, list, or rack rates. They might not be real. They might be really low, if the carrier wants the business. And they might not really adhere to them. They might be really high, because they're just the list price. So you don't know what you can do with it. But it's something you can use. Another way is to build your own model, where you take existing rates and regress them against distance, volume, any other characteristics, and come up with a model yourself that gives you a good sense of what the cost per barrel would be. The other, you can go to third parties and use benchmark rates. There's a lot of sources out there that'll give you benchmark rating data. So this is the hard one. It's always a challenge. How do you get transportation rates for lanes that don't exist in your history? It's a challenge. But you can get over it. OK. At the end of the day, I'll end up with something like this. I've got my inbound transportation costs. These are the known ones that I have from Scranton. And I assume that I went out, talked to some carriers, and did some negotiation, and came up with some potential rates coming from Bellows Falls. Also have my outbound transportation rates. And I simply found these by the $0.55 per mile times the distance matrix. Some things to note. Outbound transportation costs, much more expensive. Makes sense, because you have less economies of scale. You have more loading. The distance, you don't have those economies for longer distances. So outbound costs will generally be more expensive than inbound. Also, remember, these costs are based on historical volumes. Everything that I figured here for these Scranton, Pennsylvania, rates coming into the DC's, I used the historical utilization. Let's say every truckload historically was only loaded half full. Well, then, these costs will reflect 50% truck utilization. Maybe something I want to consider on the side is, well, what would happen if I increased that utilization to, I don't know, 80%? How would that do? What would that change? What it would probably do is reduce these costs per barrel. But what we want to do is say, OK, simply creating a new facility won't change my practice of loading trucks. So I want to isolate that effect. I want to try to mimic what I've got going on today, and not assume that this future network design will all be perfect, and do everything perfectly well. We want to try to, as best as we can, mimic what we think will actually happen. All right. So that's transportation data. Now, let's get into facilities. First, the costs. There's fixed and variable costs. And there's a lot of debate you can have. And people, in practice, will argue both sides. Some people will say, you know what? All costs are variable. Over time, I can change anything. And some other people say, you know what? You're wrong. All costs are fixed. Once the facilities are in place, a plant, a DC, it's set. I've got to pay people. I've got to pay for the power to keep the lights on. There's really nothing variable there. And you could have this argument. But it's pointless. What you need to think about for your model is to understand the impact. What will these two things, how will they impact the design? Think about fixed cost. If every one of your locations has a very high fixed cost, what will the model try to do? It'll minimize the number of locations. Period. It'll try to minimize them, because that's a big penalty. What if I have no fixed cost, but I have a very high variable cost, or whatever the variable cost is, and it's the same in any of my facilities? What am I going to do? I'm going to use all the facilities with that low cost. I'm going to use them up to their capacity. So they will have different effects on your design. Now, when I look at facility costs, again, just like in transportation, we had the lanes you knew and lanes you didn't know. We have two cases here, as well. The first case are those facilities that are run by a third party. So you have a 3PL-- third party logistics provider-- running this. That's the easy case, because chances are, their terms of the contract has both a fixed and variable component. It's very nice and neatly structured. So I can take that, and use that directly into my model, because they will have clear design on how they get paid. The challenge is, what if you own the facilities? Well, if we look at these fixed versus variable costs-- let's this think about them for a second. For the fixed cost, one initial thought that comes to mind is that the fixed cost is the cost of building, say, the distribution center. And that's not what we're trying to get here. That's known as a capital cost. That cost will be spread out over the life of that facility. What we're looking at is what are the fixed costs during my operating, my operating fixed costs during my time period of analysis? So for this NERD problem, I'm looking at things over each week. So you have to be careful about what costs you include. Now, we can also use capacity at the facility. Trying to limit the fixed cost by limiting the capacity creates a higher fixed cost. We'll talk about that later. But the real thing I want you to make sure you understand is when we talk about fixed cost, I'm not talking about putting, say, the $5 million cost of creating it. We're going to talk about what the operating cost, the operating fixed cost is. Those costs that don't depend on the units of flow, but get triggered each time period. For variable costs, what we're going to look at is something called activity-based costing. And we'll cover this in a future lesson. But essentially, it's mapping everything you do in a warehouse to the costs that accrue. So anything that increases in cost due to the increased number of units processed through, that's what I want to include. It could be labor. It could be the utility for power. It could be any materials, any handling. Anything like that. So how do I collect this? How do I find the variable cost and the operating fixed cost? I could look at the accounting data. Another way is to look at historical data and run a regression. So let's say I have a distribution center. And I look at a bunch of different weeks the last couple years. And I look at how many barrels they processed per week. And I look at the costs at each week-- labor costs, power costs, anything I can do there. And then, I run a regression. And I find the best fit line. And there, I've got my fixed cost and I've got my variable cost. And that's one way to do it with the data. There are other ways but this is a common approach. So in our problem, I'm going to have for the plants, no fixed cost but a variable cost. And you see that the new variable cost for the Bellow Falls plant, the new one, is $2 per unit per barrel. And it's $0.75 for the Scranton plant. For the distribution centers, I have both a fixed and a variable cost. And we assume that you calculated those by doing this type of regression. All right. Now, we want to talk about capacity at the facility. Capacity is a funny thing. We all know what it means, right? The engineering definition is the maximum amount that something can contain. The problem is, in supply chain, it's not that simple. We think about the capacity of a location, a facility, even a transportation link, is the maximum amount of product or material that can be processed or manufactured through a facility over a set period of time. So sometimes in practice, you hear someone saying, we're operating at 130% of capacity. In the real world, that doesn't make sense. If I have a pint glass of beer I can hold a pint of beer. Anything I pour above that, I can't have 120% of my pint of beer. It doesn't hold it. In supply chain in the facilities, it's a little trickier because it's not this hard and fast number. It's not a single number, either. Essentially, what we're trying to do with capacity, we're saying there are certain limits to the time I have that it takes to process things, or the space that I have. And the interesting thing is, those can be increased. It's not fixed, like a cup. You can't make the pint glass of beer any bigger by stretching it. You can, in supply chain. You can add labor shifts. I can add a third shift that will increase my capacity for processing material. I can improve the policies and processes that I use. If I switch from manually checking each order as it comes in versus using bar codes versus using RFID, then that might improve and speed up the time. So I might have a better policy that will increase my flow I might have better material handling equipment. If I have to load everything in by hand one box at the time, that's very slow. If I put it on a pallet, I can use a forklift. If I use belts, I can go even faster. So there's different things I can add to make it faster to go through. And then loading docks. I might be able to schedule and optimize the way I use my loading docks. Some could be for delivery, some for pickup, and I might be able to use shared ones. So there's all these different things you can do to change the capacity. In fact, you can think of it as a step function of fixed cost. So I might have a fixed cost at a certain level, assuming that there are two shifts of labor. And it will be a higher fixed cost per week if I want to go to three shifts. Because once I add that third shift, I can't suddenly let them go. I have to keep them there for a period of time. And they're there, whether they handle one package or 100 packages. So it's a fixed cost for that time period. All right. So how do I capture these? Well, there's many different ways you can do this. You can look at historically what has typically happened. What happens during peak periods? For our model, I'm going to assume a very simple capacity for the DC's, the five DC's. I'm assuming there's three big DC's in Boston, Providence, and Worcester, and two small ones in Nashua and Springfield. All right. Last thing to get. The product flows. Why do I need these? Well, I need to understand what's happening today. I can't say how much better an improvement is, a new design is, unless I can have something to compare it to. And so I need to capture what's happening today. You have to resist the temptation to remove all the outliers, and instead of capturing what actually happened, you capture what you wished had happened. You've got to avoid that temptation. You want to capture all the dirty things, and see what really happened. So in our case, here's what we've got. Oops. So in our case, here's what we've got. I've got my five DC's, and I've got each of my cities. And remember, every city's supposed to be served by one and only one DC? Well, that never happens. Look at New London. It's served by both Providence and Springfield. Worcester is served by almost every DC except Nashua. So in practice, they're not really adhering to that policy of single DC to city. So OK. I've gotten the data. What do I do next? Well, next, I'm going to build the model.

## Building the Model
All right, let's build the model. We've collected all the data, what do we do with it? Well, we're going to build a model-- and I'm doing this in a spreadsheet. This should look somewhat familiar to what we did before. I'm using the more compact notation because what we're going to do is play with this model. And so it's easier here to see, what if I change certain things? So let me give you the rough layout, all the grey cells are all data. So anything in grey is data, it's input data. You can change those things. In fact, that's what we'll be doing when do our sensitivity analysis. Anything in the yellow cell is a decision variable. These are the things the optimization model is making a determination on. It's picking those numbers. The white cells are formulas. Stay away from the white cells. Don't change those. Or change those at your own peril. So what do we have here? Well, I've got my objective function up here and I'll talk about it in more detail in a second. Then you see all my decision variables. And for my distribution centers, my decision variables are whether I open them or not. And then whether I have product-- how much product I have shipped from the Bellow Falls plant, as well as from the Scranton plant. Now for each one of the distribution centers I've got my variable and fixed costs. And for my transportation inbound, I've got my cost per barrel here for Bellow Falls and for Scranton. Now if I look down lower, here in rows 19 through 24, this is all of the transportation moves for the outbound. So a 1 here. This means I'm moving 1 barrel from the Boston DC to New Hampshire. And so you can see this is set up very similarly to what we have used in previous lessons. Over here is simply the left-hand side-- I'm summing it up across the row. Here I'm summing up the amount that's delivered to each city. And I want to make sure that my quantity does not exceed my capacity here, at each of the DCs. And the quantity delivered here meets the demanded amount. I've also got down here, at this total amount-- this just sums up the supply, or the amount that's moved through. My cost for moving the inbound barrel, that's the $0.55 a barrel. And then I've got my constraints down here that we used last time. One is p-min and p-max that limits the number of facilities I open for the DCs. I've got my two level of service constraints, one is my average miles so it has to be at least-- my distance averages can be no more, rather than 25 miles. And in this case I have to at least 80% of the demand within 50 miles. So these are the constraints. This should be very familiar to you. One thing I did a little differently is up here in the objective function-- now, the cell B3 is just the sum of the cells beneath it. And I wanted to isolate out the different buckets of cost. So you've got the distribution fixed cost, which is simply multiplying whether the DC is open or not, multiplied by its fixed cost. The outbound transportation is simply multiplying everything that's in this, right? All the cells I have here times my distance matrix, which I'm not showing on the slide, times my cost per barrel, per mile. The next one is the inbound transportation, and that's simply going to multiply the number of barrels shipped from each of the plants times the cost per barrel. And so forth down. The manufacturing cost is simply this times the amount that I'm actually moving through. And my DC handling is simply the amount that goes through each DC over here in sales N20 to N24 multiplied by my variable cost. So it's kind of sloppy that I'm writing. Let me clean that up just a tad. But this should be pretty straightforward, and you've got availability to the spreadsheet. Get comfortable with it, because we'll use this a fair amount for this whole lesson. Now we're going to use that model to create three baselines. Why three baselines? Well, you'll find out in a second. So let's talk about each of them. The first baseline uses the actual flows. So this is using the current product flows not the optimized flows. And we're trying to answer the question, does the model cost reflect the actual cost. And so, does what the model predict actually match what we experience today, because I'm using the actual flows. The second baseline takes this model and says, well, what happens if I don't flow exactly as I did but I adhere to that policy where I have a single DC going to an assigned city. What does that do? Does that change the outcome? Because now we're trying to say, OK, what if I actually executed better? Because what this baseline is doing is saying, take the current flows, but what if you had a better execution plan? You actually worked to plan. And you can see what the benefit is. The third baseline is saying, OK, take those flows, but now I'm going to optimize the assignment. I'm going to pick which DC should serve which cities. And I'm not going to change the number of DCs yet. I'm going to keep that constant. And does this change anything? So I've got three baselines that I'm going to look at, and each of them does a slightly different thing. So let's start with the first baseline. So I'm back to my model again, and all that I've done here is I've taken the data that we collected from the actual flows from each DC to each city, and I put it here, in cells B20 to M24. This is the actual flows. I type those in because it's a decision variable. I'm using this as a calculator. Essentially all the numbers are going to change. Now I also need to make sure that I'm opening every facility, and that my flows coming into each of the DCs matches this. So I just need to make sure that the numbers I put in cells F12 to F16 match what I have here in cells N20 to N24. If you do that, then you don't need to solve anything. We're not optimizing. I'm just trying to say, what would it cost with these flows? This is costing out the solution. And so I get a number, and we'll talk about this in a second. So that's baseline one. Baseline two-- I'm going to take the exact same thing except I'm going to change-- and I'm going to say, you know what? What if you adhere to policy? Boston should only be serving Boston. Boston should be the only DC that goes to Portsmith. Providence should be the only one doing New Haven, and so forth. This is the policy. Again, I need to make sure that these numbers match the sums. But again, I'm not optimizing anything. I'm just costing it out. I'm using it as a calculator. And again I'm finding the cost, I'm finding a bunch of the service levels, all those things I'm calculating. It's just a model. I'm not doing any optimization at this point. Finally, I'm going to do baseline three. And in this case, I am going to optimize something. And here's what the optimization looks like. This should be somewhat familiar to you and you have this available to look at it. To make sure you understand it. My objective function is just this, just like it's been every time, cell B3. I'm minimizing my decision variables. This is a little different because you see the comma here. They don't have to be contiguous. So these are the decision variables. Everything in yellow is a decision variable. Then I have a series of constraints. And these constraints should be old friends to you by now. They're simply saying that the amount that's delivered out of each DC can't exceed the capacity. The amount supplied to each city should meet or exceed the amount demanded. I need to make sure if I'm shipping something out of Boston that I open Boston. I need to make sure if I'm shipping something out of Boston, that it's coming into Boston, and then nothing gets lost. So you have all these constraints that we've already shown before, and you can look back and look at the spreadsheet to make sure you understand it itself. But all it's doing is tying together all those concepts we've already discussed. So I'm going to optimize it. And what am I going to find? Oh, one other thing you need to make sure you do, is you need to make sure that the p-min and the p-max are set at 5. Because if you optimize it, it'll try to open and close different facilities, so you want to force those to be open. Yeah, I'm going to keep p-min the minimum number of facilities, and the maximum facilities the same number. That's the way to force the number of facilities. We did this before. And those are in cell C and D 33. All that the model's doing then, is deciding which DC should serve which facility, or which city rather. So that's all that it's deciding. So let's look at this for a second, because this is a real solution. I see my cost and we'll compare those in a second. I look at one thing that's really interesting. You probably look Brattleboro, the city. It's served optimally by two different distribution centers. 30 from Nashua and 30 from Springfield. That's kind of interesting. So the models telling us that maybe I want to split distribution to a city. The other thing that I want to notice is to look at the quantity coming out of Springfield. I'm at my capacity. So that's telling me something. Maybe Springfield's a little tight. Nash was not that far away. Those small DCs, they're getting hammered. They're really getting used a lot. What's not getting used? Worcester. No one likes Worcester. Look at very small, low utilization. It doesn't quite make sense, right? So these are the kind of things I want you to start looking at when you have a model, because it's not just the number. The number up here in cell B3, yes it's important, but everything else matters too. So let's compare these. And so I'm going to look at baseline one. And what I'm going to do with baseline one, I want to compare that to the actual cost. Because that should be a really good reflection of what my costs were over the same time frame that I got my data. And I want to see if I'm calibrated. I want to make sure that my model is somewhat accurate. And the rule of thumb is 10%. Where did that come from? Who knows. It's a nice number. But if you keep something, 10%, something around there, you need to be able to justify it. If your model is predicting that last year's costs are twice as high as they actually were, no one is going to believe your model. You need to make sure that they're close and they're calibrated. And you can also look at the individual cost components, and we'll do that in a second. The second baseline I want to compare to the policy. Because remember all I did there was enforced the policy that's already in place. In the third baseline I said, you know what, forget that policy. Let me optimally assign the cities to individual DCs. So here's what we ended up with. Three baseline scenarios, cleverly named one, two, and three. And you can see the costs. The costs go down as you would expect. The actual one had a $93,000, roughly $94,000 a week. And then down to the baseline two, adhering to the policy, I save almost $11,000 a week just adhering to policy. Where does that money come from? Boom, right there. It's all outbound transportation. I'm saving $11,000 on outbound transportation, because I'm cleaning things up. Now can you actually do that in execution? That's a good question. But this is showing the area for improvement. However, look at what I did for baseline three. I can reduce it another $4,000 a week if I optimally assign them. That's pretty good. Notice that nothing else really changes. I didn't allow DCs to change. I didn't allow the manufacturing cost to change, DC handling negligible. The real driver is that outbound transportation. OK so my real question is, which baseline should I use to compare against for future designs? That's the thing that we're going to talk about. Another way I can represent these is looking at the baseline costs. And this is another representation. Same data, just as a chart. And you can see that the big cost savings going from baseline one to three is the outbound transportation. I really reduced that by focusing in on my delivery from DC to customer. So these are just the baselines. This kind of sets us up. And the next thing we'll do is start examining different scenarios.

## Running Initial Scenarios
OK. We've created the baseline models. We've calibrated Baseline 1 to meet the actual history. We're within roughly 10%. We then did Baseline 2 to see how well-- if I adhere to the policies, what would that do to the solution? And then we created Baseline 3, which said what if we do an optimal allocation of cities to DC's. So we've run all those. We're comfortable. Now we're going to have fun. This is where we're going to run different scenarios. This is where we test different policies, different structures. And this is where the value of the model comes out. So in this video segment, I'm going to run four quick scenarios just to see what happens if I reduce the number of Distribution Centers. So this is the last model we'd run, Baseline 3. And remember what I did is I forced all of the DC's to be open by using my P_MIN and P_MAX values, set those both equal to 5. But I let the system, the optimization determine how to distribute, so that's down here in cells B20 to M24. And we pointed out before that it was already recommending split allocations here, where Brattleboro gets supported by both the Nashua DC and the Springfield DC. All right. But what happens if I restrict it a little more, I force P_MIN and P_MAX equal to 4? So now only four DC's are open. I'm going to close that Providence DC. It's a little further away. It's on the expensive end. You can see why it would do it. And what happened? Well, we have more splitting. Brattleboro is still split. But it looks like New London gets split by multiple DC's as well. We're hitting some tighter capacity here. The smaller DC's are both fully out. It's funny how we hit those to capacity before we start using any of Providence. And that's because we have that fixed cost. It's trying to use as much of the existing facilities before you even tap open one of those other ones. Let's keep going. And so now I'm reducing it to 3 DC's. And all I'm doing is ratcheting it down a little bit. And what happens now? Well, the 3 DC's it opens, it's going to operate them up to capacity. It's going to do anything it can to not open a new facility. And in this case, it's restricting it. Notice it's using the two smaller ones versus using even just two of the bigger ones. And you can see it's starting to increase the number of split deliveries. Those two are still there. And we're still-- now we're just limited to 3 DC's. So if I ratchet it down again, what if I go to 2 DC's? And you can see what it really does, it goes down and it says, OK, Worcester and Boston, those are the 2 DC's that are opened. And it looks like Worcester's going to serve everything down south. And it looks like Boston is serving everything north, Concord, Manchester, Nashua, Portsmouth, and then, wow, interestingly, Providence, which is way south. So it's kind of a split. But we'll look at the cost in a second to compare them. But I just want to see what happens. And all I'm doing is ratcheting down the number of DC's. Let's go one more. If I go to one, and all I'm doing here is setting the P_MIN, the P_MAX to 1. And I'll get this. Oh. What did I do wrong? It says it can't find a feasible solution. Well, we probably could have figured that out, right? If I look at the capacity for all the DC's, I know there's 2,000 units going through. No single DC can handle that, so I'm asking the optimization to do something it can't do. There's no feasible solution. So the fewest number of DC's given these capacity numbers is two. So hopefully that makes sense. Whenever you have capacity constraints, you get this a lot, because you might set something up that there is no feasible solution. And that's when you'll get this warning. And this is a signal for you to say, OK, what did I do wrong? Trace your steps back, and the main culprit is always going to be these capacity constraints. They cause a lot of those problems. All right. So I did four scenarios, and actually the fourth one doesn't count because it was infeasible. And so let's see how they look. So I've got here a chart. And in the table, I'm comparing Baseline 3, which makes sense that that's the one I'm comparing, because I've optimally assigned, and it's really saying it's the five DC solution. So I'm comparing five DC's to four to three to two. And we don't even worry about this, because I can't go down to one. So what can we say? Let's look at it. Where's the big change? Well, we look at the lowest cost and it looks like the three DC provides the lowest cost. Why? Well, as I reduce the number of DC's, as you would expect the cost for fixed cost for DC's goes down. Duh, right? We expect that. I'm forcing that to happen. Similarly, in the opposite direction, look what happens to the outbound cost. Outbound cost in green goes up. And it'll continually go up as I reduce the number of DC's. Makes sense, because I'm further away from my customers. This is also reflected in my level of service. You can see that it drops from 87% down to 65% when I get down to two DC's. So that also follows the same thing. You can look at the average distance increases as I reduce the number of DC's, so I'm getting further away. Now what else happens? Look at the inbound transportation cost. It's this row. And it's in the purple or I guess the purple-bluish. It decreases as I go from five DC's to four DC's to 3 DC's and then it jumps back up right when I go to two. That's because I'm forcing it to go to these two further away DC's. But we talked about this. As I decrease the number of DC's, my transportation cost for inbound will go down, because I'm consolidating, going to fewer locations. That makes sense. What doesn't change too much? Well, the DC handling doesn't change too much. Manufacturing hasn't changed, because I'm still only coming from one plant. But as I look at this, I get an understanding of what the different scenarios do, what impact I have by closing or opening the number of DC's. And I can look and say, well, you know what, three might be the right number. But just realize that this is based on the capacity estimates that I came up with as well as the costs. So you would want to do some sensitivity there as well to make sure this isn't just a fluke if I have some bad data in there. One last aside before we go on to the more advanced scenarios. Bar charts. You're going to see a ton of bar charts. They're great. They give great information. And whenever you use them, do something like this. This is the same data showing a couple more of the baseline scenarios, and it's showing the total cost. And this is a nice thing, because I can see how they go. And I see, wow, that Scenario 2, limiting to 3 DC's, that's a reduction from roughly 90,000 a week to 70,000 a week. Resist the temptation to do this, to take the x-axis and move it up to 65,000 and show something like this. Because if I look at this chart in the lower right, it looks like this option 3 is-- wow, it's like a 10th of what this Baseline 1 is, when in fact, you know, it's about 10%, not even that. So it's very important that you never move the baseline from zero. Keep it at zero when you use bar charts. If you move it up, it distorts the fact. It makes this savings, this gap right here, looks tremendously big, because you're cutting off-- you're essentially going everything above this line. All right. Next we're going to dive in to more scenarios, little more advanced scenarios.

## Advanced Scenarios
So now let's try and run some more advanced scenarios. And so we talked about these, and we did the first four to reducing the number of distribution centers, and we saw that we hit some infeasibilities. And now we're going to run scenarios 5 through 10. And these are just testing different things, different designs. So the first one-- what happens if I open the Bellow Falls plant? Remember, that's up here in Vermont. It's a little north. If you look, it's a little closer to all the distribution centers. Unfortunately, it's a little more expensive-- $2 per barrel to handle, and they have limited capacity that they can provide us. Now, they might be able to negotiate for more capacity, but this is the initial offer that we have. So the question is, it worth it? Let's see how we would estimate that or try to figure that out. So I would set the capacity, which is in cell G4, to 250, and then I loosen up those constraints for P_MIN and P_MAX max. That's cell C 33 and D 33. Set it to 1 and 5. So I'm going to let the model decide how many distributions to open as well as allow it to look into the capacity out of the new plant. So here's that new capacity. You see I added it to 250 right there. So it allows me to go up to that. So this is the solution. I run the same model. Everything else works. What do I end up with? Well, I end up using all 250 units. How much has it saved me? Well, remember, I should compare this to scenario 2, which had the 3 DC optimal, which was around $68,700. So I really only saved about $250 a week. That's not that great. That's a little bit, but it's really not that much money. But because I'm using all of it, maybe I want to do something different. Maybe I want to buy some more capacity, because maybe it's worth doing more, and I'm going to save even more money. So let's see. Let's call this scenario 6. And now I want to see, should I use an extra capacity, and how much would it be worth for me? So all I'm going to do is set the capacity in cell G4. I'm going to set that equal to 2,000 right here. Why 2,000? Because I know my demand will never exceed that. So I'm trying to see if I allow the model to consider using more than 250, would it? And in fact, it does. It uses another 250 units. It looks like it uses enough to be able to deliver-- if you look at this-- everything that Nashua needs. And so what we've essentially done, Scranton is serving the southern market-- SP, which is Springfield and Wooster, and so it's going straight there. And the new plant is serving Nashua. If I look at the cities that Nashua is serving, they're all in the north-- Brattleboro, Concord, Manchester, Nashua, Portsmouth. They're all the same. And then the southern are being serviced by Scranton. It makes sense. Now, I don't know how much Bellow Falls would charge me for additional amount for this capacity, but I can figure out how much more I'd be willing to pay. So this is a nice thing that this model does-- it shows that I save $300 a week roughly. So now I know what my limit is. I don't want to go and pay more than that. I probably don't even want to pay up to that. But it gives you a sense of how valuable additional capacity is to you and how much you'd think you might need. So that's a pretty nice thing. It's a nice outcome that the tool can provide. So let's keep going. Let's run some other scenarios. Scenario 7, I want to look and say, OK, what happens if demand goes up? So all that I did here is I went to these gray cells that are in row 26, and I increased the demand. I increased them by 50% over what we had before, and I just resolved the model. What happens? Well, I'm allowing Bellow Falls to be in there, so I've got the two plants. And you can see what kind of happens. We have a division. The southern gets a service by Scranton. The northern DC's get serviced by Bellow Falls. Makes sense. Now we can compare, how much do I save from that? How do I compare that? Should I compare that to the baselines? No, because the demands have changed. This is moving 3,000 units through, not 2,000 anymore, because I assume demand went up. I also made the assumption it went up uniformly. You can play with this in many different scenarios. You could test and say, what if the Boston market explodes? What if Nashua explodes? What if some other city goes down? So you have all these different options you can do to test the robustness. For this simple case, I just said, what if everything goes up? So we see that it kind of split the network, which kind of makes sense. And so this provides a little extra level. And it only used 4 DC's. It didn't open Wooster. So that's kind of interesting. Let's see what happens now if I have the same demand. So it's 50% higher from what we saw before, but I don't allow the new plant to open. This is what I want to compare it to. So with the plant, I'm spending about $100,700 a week. Here, I'm spending $101,300 change. So it's pretty small. It's less than $1,000 difference. So having that extra capacity up there at Bellow Falls not really doing much for me. Now, I can look and see even more, but it really isn't that big of a savings if I go up that much. And notice that the local distribution doesn't change. The only thing that changed was where it came from. So let me go back. You see here, I was shipping Bellow Falls to Boston and Nashua, Scranton to the other two. Here, I'm keeping the same ones open, but everything is from Scranton, so that's the only thing that changed. None of the distribution from DC to cities changed. Two more scenarios to look at just to give you a flavor of what we can do here. Scenario 9. We just built these mega DC's. We might have just acquired one of these. And they're big 1,000 barrels per week capacity ones, the ones in Boston, Providence, and Wooster. I want to keep those open. The management seriously wants to keep those open, because they made investments. Let's see what happens. So I can force them to be open. How do I do that? Well, I want to reset the demand to the original values. Make sure you come back to Earth. We're not at the 50% more anymore. I set the capacity for Bellow Falls back to 0. I set the P_MIN and P_MAX max to 3, so only 3 DC's will be open. But how do I enforce it to only open those three? There's two ways you can do it. What I did in this model, I set their fixed cost to a ridiculously high number-- $9,999.99 So I made it really high so I know the model will never pick them. Another way to do it would be to set their capacities to 0. Either way would work, and you'd get the exact same answer. Try it. See what happens for you. But the end result here-- by keeping those open, I'm increasing my outbound cost. Which makes sense, because yes, it's fewer DC's, but they're not close to the customer. They're not the ones that I would pick to get closer to the customer. Remember, Wooster was never selected when given it's free. It's a little further out. So now we can go back and say if we want to keep these open, let's make sure we understand what the costs are. And maybe there are other reasons that we don't know about to keep them open. But now we know what it's costing us to keep them open. One last scenario. Because all we've been talking about is cost so far, but what about service? So what I want to do here is I want to make sure the max average distance is less than 25 miles. I want to make sure customers are close to the DC's. That's a good proxy for having high customer service. I want to make sure that 80% of the demand is within 50 miles. And I'm going to allow the new plant to be open. You see all these different combinations that you can test. So what am I going to do? I'm going to make sure the demand is set originally. I'm going to set the capacity back here to 250. I'm going to set the P_MIN and P_MAX max equals to 1 and 5 respectively, so I can let the model select. And then I'm going to set these parameters in cells D 34 and C 35. Check in your spreadsheet to make sure that my max average distance is 25 and 0.8 is the minimum percent. So if I solve that, this is my solution. And we see that what happens when I require a higher level of service, all five DC's open. And so it looks like the BF plant, the new one, only delivers to Nashua. Nashua is taking care of most of the northern, because that helps me get closer to those customers. Without Nashua, you're going to have a big jump in customer service, because it's better located to those northern cities. But then you see that they're all fully used. And look at Springfield. Springfield is really tapped out. That could get you to start thinking about some other things, maybe explore what would it take to expand capacity. Can I do something there to increase my throughput at the Springfield plant? So I did six new scenarios, scenarios 5 through 10. And what I'm showing here is the baseline. Then I'm showing scenario 2, which was the optimal 3 DC, because that's what we want to compare to. Because if I let anything else be free and I let it pick, that's the one that I want to do comparisons to, because that's the lowest cost. So I compare these, and I say, OK, what happens if I open up my plant? What if I allow infinite capacity at that new plant? Remember scenario 7 and 8, I messed around with the demand to see how we handled increases in demand. That's these ones. And then I looked at keeping the same three big DC's open, and then what happened when I enforce a level of service. As you're guessing, there are an infinite number of different scenarios you can run. We'll talk more in later lessons about how you should run this process. But I wanted to demonstrate that using a very, very simple model, you can have all these different runs. And these different scenarios are testing out different policies. Whether I open more DC's, whether I open a new plant, whether I enforce a certain level of service, all of these are different scenarios. And what this model allows you to do is to put a price on it and let you rate it out in terms of all the other performance metrics that we have here. So this is the real benefit of having a model like this.

## Key Take Aways
All right. Another pretty intensive lesson here. So hopefully, you're getting a handle on things though, because we only did one thing during this lesson. We used this example of the New England Root Beer Distributors to show how to use network design models to test the different design scenarios. Previous lessons showed us how to build the models, and we played with them, and showed how the optimization worked. Now we apply them. And I tried to show through a very simple example, the three major steps. The first step, collecting the data, which is the most critical step, and the most commonly ignored step. It's the one that people gloss over because it's very hard. But you need to collect data that is representative and makes sense. The data has to be costs and capacities on the transportation arcs and the facilities. We'll talk much more about this in next week's lessons but this is always the hardest part and most time consuming part of any network design. The second thing we did, we built baselines. Why did we build a baseline? We need to make sure that our model closely resembles reality. That's why we use existing flows. A model that doesn't reflect what happens today is useless. No one will believe it in the future. So you have to make sure that the mechanics of the model and the costs of the model represent reality. And it's a great way to test your data. To make sure that the individual components of the data make sense. Make sure that the total costs look reasonable, but also make sure that the different components, the facility cost, the distribution cost, the transportation costs, make sure those buckets are also somewhat reasonable. Then we use the baseline. We optimized that to be able to compare it to the new designs. You don't want to just compare last year's bad execution to a future plan with perfect execution. You have to make it apples to apples, and that's why we created the other baselines. Because we said OK, now let's take away the poor execution because when I do future models, it's going to assume that it's executed perfectly, because we're all perfect in the future. So we need to make sure I'm comparing apples to apples and not apples to my baseline one, which is more like a rotten apple. It has all that bad execution in it. All right. The last thing we did was the fun part, and that's running the scenarios. They are so easy to run. And I showed you how to run them in a spreadsheet. And that's where you have to change cells, and that's pretty complicated. Using sophisticated software, it's very easy. And so, you can spend a lot of time running these. And as you can think about it, you could run a million different scenarios. So you have to think more about what you want to do, and I'll spend more time on this next week to talk about how you might want to run your scenarios, and how you want-- might want to organize them. Because it's very easy to get overwhelmed. But these scenarios are an excellent way to price out potential options. It's not just about getting an answer. The answer is six. Right? It's all about understanding what the recommendation is and using your common sense. Remember, it's an art and a science. We're showing the science, but you need to make sure that art comes in and make sure you-- the solution makes business sense, not just mathematical, optimal sense. But you do have to resist that temptation for analysis paralysis. You could do scenarios forever, I've been engaged in the scenario planning and other optimization based studies where we spent more than six months doing analysis of scenario, after scenario, after scenario. It doesn't necessarily lead to a better result. So you have to guard against that. Just because it's easy to run a million scenarios doesn't mean you need to run a million scenarios. All right. So that's the lesson. I'm excited about it, Wilson's terribly excited about network design. I hope you are too. So chat if you have any questions. Please use the discussion forum and try the practice problems. Get comfortable using the model to do scenario analysis.
