# week08 lesson1 accounting fundamentals

(SC2x video lecture transcript)

## Components of Financial Statements
Hi, and welcome to the supply chain finance module. In this segment, we'll focus on components of the financial statements, specifically the income statement and the balance sheet. Now, the financial statements of the firm include many, many different types and documents. They include those that are presented to investors, those that are presented to the general public, and those that are used internally in the firm, generated many cases by the accounting department. Those are often used for helping the business to make decisions. The ones that we're going to be speaking about today are going to be the income statement and the balance sheet. These documents can be found in the 10k. They can be found in the annual report, and they can also be found-- or at least, components of that would be found in the statement of changes in financial position. Again, there are many reports. In this segment, we're focusing on the income statement and the balance sheet. Now, the income statement really lists all the flows of cash in and out of the firm, and it's quite simple. Because there are really three components of the income statement. We have revenues. That represents all the monies that come into the firm. You have expenses. Those are the monies that go out of the firm, and then you have profit. That's what's left over afterwards. Now, revenues goes by a number of different terms. You see them sometimes as gross sales, turnover proceeds. Expenses has many different components. The main ones that we'll talk about today will be the cost of goods sold and an operating expense. And then profit goes by a number of different terms, and of course, there are variations of different ways to think and look at profit. As we see listed here, sometimes it's called income. Another segment of that or one way to look at it is gross margin. There's gross profit, again, many of the others. EBIT and EBITDA, EBIT standing for Earnings Before Interest and Tax, and EBITDA standing for Earnings Before Interest Tax Depreciation and Amortization. You'll probably hear that if you're traveling around in the financial circles. The operating expense element that is most important that we will think about in the supply chain will be the cost of goods sold. This represents all the direct cost that contribute to the production of a particular product, which basically entails the materials and the labor that are used to produce the product. It does not include what are called indirect expenses, meaning expenses that cannot be directly attributed to the production of one particular product. These would be things like distribution costs or sales force costs. These are generally speaking not included in COGS, or Cost of Goods Sold. Now, there's a variation of cost of goods sold that's called the cost of revenue, and cost of revenue, it's slightly different. And the distinction here is that the cost of revenue includes those costs beyond the production of the product, beyond the materials and the labor, and includes distribution and marketing. You'll see it represented in various ways, but most of the time you'll see COGS. Another important element of the operating expense is what's called SG&A, or Sales General Administration. There's really two components there. Those are the sales expenses. Those are the expenses that are directly linked to the sale of the product, and of course, you could imagine that would be the cost of the sales personnel, the cost for the vehicle that they might be driving, the cost for travel expenses, the cost for them using a phone, cost for promotion, advertising, all things associated with sales. The other element of SG&A is general administration. All right, those are going to be the expenses that would be the managerial expenses or any kind of cost that the firm incurs that are not directly attributable to the production of the product or the sale and distribution of the product. This would include things like utilities or include cost for insurance, or the attorneys, or the finance department. That's what's included in SG&A. There's another group of expenses called other, and this can include a lot of different components, really depending on what's important within the firm. Sometimes you'll see it as depreciation. Sometimes you'll see amortization, and sometimes you'll see R&D. It's really up to the firm what they include in other, and how they represent that, and for that matter, how it's shown in the income statement. Depreciation very directly an expense that accounts for the use of a tangible asset. Amortization is accounting for the use of an intangible asset, particularly goodwill, and goodwill is nothing more than the monies that are spent in excess of the book value of a particular asset that the firm purchases. So if a firm pays $1 billion to acquire a company and its book value is $100 million, well, they just earned themselves $900 million worth of goodwill. We can talk about that at another time, but again, this is just another potential list of an expense. Let's look at an example or two to give you an idea of what an income statement might look like. Income statement for Intel 2014, starts with net revenue, top line. We often hear the term top line. It means the revenue. It's the monies that you bring in before any expenses. We see here it's $55 billion, and of course, the other components are just as we've spoke about. In their case, they're showing the cost of goods sold, the cost of sales, and you deduct the cost of sales. Remember you would get gross margin. Below that there are a series of other expenses that represent the operating expenses. In this case, they show R&D. They show marketing general administration, and then they include amortization. They don't show depreciation in this particular case. The result is you have an income before taxes, and then the bottom line-- what's left over at the end-- is their net income. We could see something similar for General Motors. In their case, they show the cost of revenue. Remember we talked about a different way to represent the cost of goods sold. This includes distribution costs, but here we see they list their expenses. And in their expenses they similarly include R&D. In their case, they have SG&A, but they don't list amortization and the depreciation. The second report that we wanted to talk about in this segment is the balance sheet. Now, in comparison with the income statement, the balance sheet reports the financial condition of the firm representing all the things that it owes-- that it owns rather, meaning things of valu-- and all that it owes, obligations to pay somebody, at one point in time. And there are really two categories. There's assets and liabilities. We can think about assets as something the firm owns, something that has value, and we can think about the liabilities as an obligation to pay someone. Or another way to think of it is, as represented here, a claim against the assets. Now, two things important to remember about balance sheet, that assets always equal liabilities. And then the data that is represented on the balance sheet is always representing the book value. It's whatever was paid for the particular item. It does not record the market value. Now, there are certain assets on the balance sheet that we in the supply chain are going to care a lot more about, and that's going to be things such as inventory. I just want to recognize that there are different ways of valuing inventory. One's called LIFO. One's called FIFO. We'll address that in another segment. Let's look at a balance sheet as an example. In this particular case, we see that the assets are listed on the top, and we see the liabilities listed on the bottom. Sometimes you'll see them listed next to each other, assets on one side. Then you'll see liabilities on the other side, kind of like the balance sheet. You want to make sure you have a balance. Something's wrong. Right side is in balance with the left. We see again assets on the top, liabilities on the bottom, and then at the bottom, let's look at this. And in Intel's particular case for 2014, they list $91 billion worth of assets. Well, guess what? The amount of liabilities is equal. Remember, assets always equals liabilities. And then we see also that there's a current assets and a current liability segment within each. Now, just as we were saying, let's talk about the assets and the particular components of the assets. There's really two parts of that. There's current assets, and then we have the long term assets. The current assets are those assets, those things of value, that the firm has that can be converted into cash within the next accounting period, usually considered a month for the purposes of paying against the current obligations. And that would include things as we see here, cash, accounts receivable, inventory, and then you have other smaller elements in there. But primarily it's cash, accounts receivable, and inventory. Longer term assets are those things that have long term value associated with the firm and are not readily converted into cash. That will include a factory that a company might own, or property, or big pieces of machinery and equipment. It also includes things like goodwill, which we mentioned earlier, or any other kinds of fixed assets equipment that the firm may have. On the other side of the assets is of course the liabilities, and these, as we mentioned, similarly, they have current liabilities. Then they have long term liabilities, but there's another element and that's called the equity. Similar to the assets, the current liabilities are obligations to be paid in the next accounting period. Of course, that would be accounts payable. You purchase something from a supplier. You need to pay them, and then you're going to usually have to pay them within the next period. And then there's a couple of other smaller items that would be included in the current liabilities. Long term liabilities includes the long term debt. You have a mortgage on your house. Well, similarly, firms have mortgages. They have long term loans that they have to pay, not due in the next period, but in the future periods. And then this other element in the liability side of the balance sheet is equity, and that really represents the ownership of the firm. And it starts off with paid in capital. This is cash received from organizations, individuals as initial investments in the firm, and then the value of the firm increases or decreases depending on the retained earnings that are added to or deducted from by the net income of the firm. And we'll talk about that connection in just a moment. Let's talk about supply chain transactions that affect both the income statement and the balance sheet. Let's assume a company sells a product for $10,000 in cash, and the product cost $2,000 to produce and deliver. How will this impact the income statement and the balance sheet? Well, let's look at the income statement impact first. Well, first, we'd see a revenue increase of $10,000, because the company has sold the product for $10,000. That is recognized as a sale. There's a cost of $2,000, and that's reflected in part of the cost of goods sold. And then the net, of course, of that is that you have $8,000. $10,000 minus the $2,000, and you get $8,000. Now, on the balance sheet, we see that the cash current asset would increase by $10,000, because the company sold the product but they got cash. If they sold the product and it was going to be paid next month, that would show up as a current asset of an accounts receivable. But in this case, it's cash, because we see the monies immediately. The inventory would reduce by $2,000, and the retained earnings would increase by $8,000. That's the connection between the income statement and the balance sheet. The change in the net income is reflected as the change in the retained earnings. Let's look at that as in an example using Amazon from 2014. Again, a change in the retained earnings from one balance sheet statement to another is equal to the net income over this time period between those two different time phases. And that is the connection between the income statement and the balance sheet. If we look at Amazon's balance sheet from 2014, we see they had retained earnings of $1,949,000, but the prior year, they had a higher amount of retained earnings, $2,190,000. So that effectively is a change, a drop, of $241 million. Well, if we look at the income statement, what are we going to see? Well, we're going to see-- in the income statement, we'll see a drop of $241 million. Again, the net income, the change in the net income, is reflected as a change in the retained earnings. Let's talk about key points. The income statement provides a summary of the flows in and out of the firm, so all the cash that comes in and all the cash that goes out over a period of time. And this really reflects the performance of the firm in terms of its ability to generate income. And of course, the difference between their ability to generate income and produce a loss is their ability to make sure that they bring in more revenue versus the expenses that they have. The balance sheet really gives them a snapshot, just a picture in one point in time, of the assets that the firm has and all of the obligations that the firms have at one particular point in time. Together, these two statements provide a useful but not a complete assessment of the performance of the firm. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use the discussion area. And i look forward to seeing you in future sessions. Thank. You.

## Role of Accounting
Hi. Welcome to the Supply Chain Finance module. In this segment, we're going to talk about the role of accounting. Now, the accountants in the firm play a number of different roles, and some of the decisions that they make do indeed affect those of us in the supply chain. But let's talk about the fundamental roles that the accountant plays. First and foremost, they are recording the transactions of the business. Meaning any time that there's money that comes into the firm or goes out of the firm, they're recording that in some transaction. When there's material that comes into the firm or goes out of the firm, they're recording that as a transaction. Now, they use those transactions, and those are the source material for a number of different reports, including financial reports that serve investors in attempt to provide investors with an objective perspective of the performance of the firm. Tax accountant reports basically provide a list to the IRS of the performance of the firm representing their financial obligations to the IRS. And then lastly, there are internal reports called product cost reports that management uses to help make decisions about which products to invest in an other investments that the firm should make to improve the performance of the business. Now, all of these are prepared consistent with basic accounting concepts, but keep in mind that there are choices that the accountant can make with regards to some other transactions. There are limits and there are legal guidelines, of course, that he or she must follow. Now, the annual report is one of the more popular or common reports we might think of and there are a number of different components, including some of the financial statements such as the income statement and balance sheet, there are notes in financial reports which provides some detail to the numbers in the aforementioned financial reports. It's very important to go look at those and understand those if you really want to understand the numbers on the income statement, the balance sheet, and the statement of changes and financial position. And then there's the chairperson's comments, and this generally provides the leader's assessment and explanation of the performance of the firm and usually an optimistic assessment of the future that the firm faces. Lastly, there's a statement from a public accounting firm, and auditing firm, and their statement really does not offer an opinion on how well the business is performing. Only it suggests that the reports repaired in compliance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that the reports are a fair representation of the numbers that they were given as the accounting firm. Now, tax accounting and financial accounting are quite different and there are different objectives as we had just described. It's important to understand the distinction. The financial accountants and the financial reports are going to attempt to provide a fair representation of the performance of the firm, and this is primarily first for investors and stockholders. Compare that with the tax accountant's objective, and the tax accountant's objective is to minimize the tax liability and to defer the payment of taxes as long as possible. Of course, that's better for the firm. It's better for the firm to reduce its financial obligations and to delay payments it has to make of any kind. Now, understandably, with those two different objectives and those different sets of reports, you can recognize that this is quite complex. And as such, the tax code permits organizations to actually maintain two sets of books. So it's completely legal to do that. Now, let's understand a little more why that's legal. Within United States, the tax code permits firms to depreciate capital assets. That's assets that have lasting value longer than one accounting period. Generally speaking, it's more than five accounting periods. And the tax code also permits organizations that have capital assets to depreciate those using a different schedule, meaning that there's a different rate of depreciation. Now, we'll talk about what depreciation is in a moment. But again, it's legal for organizations to have two sets of books-- one for accounting and more for tax reporting. Now, let's talk about depreciation. What is that? Well, it's an expense to the firm. So as we think about the income statement, you have a revenue line which represents the monies that come in, and you have expenses. Expenses are those that are costs to the firm, and then the resultant of deducting the expenses from the revenue out of a profit. So within the expenses there are often-- not often, but most of the expenses are cash expenses, like for materials and labor and such. But depreciation is an unusual expense. It's a non-cash expense. What it is, it's a recognition that a capital asset that a firm might have, let's say a piece of machinery that they paid $100,000 for and that's going to last 10 years, well each year, there's a value, there's a cost for using that. And that cost is represented as a depreciation. So it's basically an estimated cost of using that asset. Then in recognizing and recording a depreciation expense, each year, the capital asset is reduced by the exact amount of the expense. Let's go over an example to better understand this. So let's assume that a firm buys a machine for $10,000 and they figure that this is going to last 10 years. And therefore, the annual depreciation expense is going to be $1,000 per year. Assuming a 10-year life, so we have to understand how long that capital asset will last, the value of that asset at the end of its life-- in this case we're assuming it's a zero residual value-- and then also the rate of depreciation, which is how much of that is depreciating each year? And so in this case, we're looking at what's called the straight line method, meaning each year the depreciation is the same as the next year. So again, with $10,000 cost over a 10-year period, that means $1,000 each year the depreciation expense is recorded, and that asset is depreciated by that exact amount each year. So after year 1, the asset would be valued at $9,000 and there would've been a $1,000 expense recorded in that year 1. In year 2, there would be another $1,000 expense recorded, and then that asset would be recorded as being valued at $8,000. Now, the depreciation rate changes based on what the firm thinks of how long their the material is going to last and the value associated with its use in each year. That's for the firm to decide. Now let's go through an exercise here, and the challenge is to calculate the depreciation expense for the value used of a truck each year given these facts. It cost $60,000, it will last 5 years in terms of its service life, and at the end of its service life, it will have a $5,000 salvage value. Let's assume that each year the depreciation expense is going to be the same. What is that annual depreciation expense, and what is the impact on taxes? Well, let's look at that. Here are the facts as we've just described them. Important-- the first thing we have to do is understand what's the total amount we're going to depreciate? In this case, it's going to be the purchase cost of $60,000 less the remaining value at the end, which is $5,000. So how much is going to be depreciated is $55,000. Now, over what time period? We said a 5-year time period. OK, 5 years service life. So that means we take this $55,000 and we divide it by the service life, and that will give us $55,000/5, or $11,000, which represents the annual depreciation expense. So what does that mean in terms of the impact on taxes? Well, what it means is that each year, the firm is reporting an $11,000 expense that they didn't have before, which means there's $11,000 less of revenue that they have the report. And therefore, they report a higher expense. It means their net is going to be lower and therefore their income is going to be reported lower even though they're actually going to have that cash on hand. And with the lower income, that means their tax obligation is going to be lower, as well. Let's talk about key points. As suggested, the accountants in the firm are the ones who are reporting all the comings and goings of cash and materials within the firm. And this serves as the basis for all of the different reports that accountants prepare, whether it's for investors, the IRS, or management. We spent some time talking about depreciation, and this is the recognition of the value used of capital assets. And it's important to understand that because within the supply chain, many of the capital assets are used by the supply chain. It's important to understand the actual quality and condition of those assets. Recognize how old, how new they are, and whether that capital is being replenished, the capital equipment is being replenished or not. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use the discussion area. I look forward to seeing you in future sessions. Thank you.

## Accounting Concepts
Hi. Welcome to the supply chain finance module. In this segment, we're going to be focused on accounting concepts. Accounting concepts are the basic set of concepts to provide guidance to the accountant in carrying out his or her duties recording the transactions of the business. The comings and goings of the cash and the materials in and out of the firm. Keep in mind that although accounts are dealing with discrete numbers, the process of recording a transaction is not always an exact science. There are choices that the accountant must make, with guidance from management, when recording a transaction. The big choices include whether to categorized an expenditure as a period expense or as an investment and capital asset, how the firm allocates overhead in their costing system, and the relative conservative or aggressive choices when recording inventory. There are a number of different basic accounting concepts. We'll go through 10 of the primary concepts right now. These are not all the core concepts. Most of the relevant ones. We're going to go in some greater depth for some more so than others, because some of them are more meaningful and more important to the supply chain than some of the other concepts. The dual aspect concept is also known as a duality principle. This refers to the basic convention in accounting where total assets always equals total liabilities, where liabilities includes short-term liabilities or shown here as current liabilities, long-term liabilities, and equity. So there are different components within liabilities. So when we see a balance sheet with the assets on one side, and the liabilities on the other, the bottom line-- total assets and total liabilities are always going to equal each other. Now, you may have heard about the double entry accounting system, and that refers to the recording process that requires two entries for each transaction, which ultimately helps keep the assets equal due to liabilities. The accounting period concept merely states that the usual time frame for accounting analysis is a one-year time frame. Therefore an income statement reports the income generating capabilities of the firm for a one-year period. That being said, all businesses will conduct analyzes on the business performance in smaller increments of time-- quarterly, monthly, weekly, and even daily in some cases. The conservatism concept suggests that the accountant should adopt a conservative position when faced with a choice in recording a transaction. For example, the accountant should recognize transactions that may decrease equity when they are reasonably possible, and recognize transactions that may result in increases in equity only when they are reasonably certain. Let's take an example. If a food company has $100 million in finished goods inventory that is held beyond the expiration date, the value of the inventory would certainly come under question. It's highly likely that that inventory suffered a permanent loss of value, and the only marketable use may be for animal feed. That market value would likely be much lower than the cost of materials on the books, which is $100 million. So the firm should choose the lower of cost or market and revalue the inventory down to the market value of the inventory. That would be a conservative approach. Now, keep in mind that organizations should not be revaluing their inventory frequently. This should only occur with dramatic reductions in the evaluation, and it should be done rarely. Otherwise the investors will start to question the accuracy of the financial reports if the organization keeps changing the evaluation method or the evaluation of their different assets. One more example may help. Let's say a supplier submitted a quote to a customer, and the customer called back to say that their bid was very appealing, and that they will likely make the purchase. Should they record that as a sale? No. As encouraging as that call would be, the supplier should not record that as a sale, not until they receive a firm order, preferably in writing, from the customer. The accrual concept suggests that the accountant should record transactions when there is a relevant event, but not necessarily when cash is exchanged. This simple example here illustrates this. If a company sells $2,500 in furniture for custom furniture and receives a balance in full at the time of the custom order-- let's say on April 1-- but the company ships a product on June 15, well, there are two different ways to record that transaction. If we use the accrual method, the accountant will record June 15 as the date of the sale, because that's when the furniture was shipped to the customer. Whereas using the cash method the accountant would record April 1 as the date of the sale. Keep in mind that in almost all cases, the accrual method is used only in rare cases as a cash method used for-- and that's typically by smaller firms. The rest of the concepts I'll share are straightforward and warrant a brief explanation. The cost concept means that in transactions, the accountant will record the cost basis, meaning that the accountant will not consider the market value of an asset. This prevents manipulation of the asset value that could occur if the accountant chose to use a subjective market value. For supply chain professionals, we should recognize that inventories are recorded on a cost basis, not what the market value is, meaning that the value of inventory on hand could be higher or it could be lower, depending on changes in the marketplace for those particular materials. The materiality concept means that the accountant should record all transactions that have the potential for impact on the business, but should ignore those that are trivial in nature. For example, if an organization purchases office products-- let's just say USB flash drives-- for $200, these should be treated as period expenses, even if the flash drives are going to provide value to the firm for more than the one-year accounting period. Yes, one could record the flash drives as an asset, because they're going to be providing value for more than a year, but the cost of keeping track of the flash drives in the accounting system and then the potential impact of this on a financial report-- that's really negligible. So this purchase really should be treated as an expense to the firm. Basically, they accountant should not invest resources in tracking immaterial items that will not impact the financial reports either way. The consistency concept states that the accountant should be consistent using the same method for recording transactions. For example, an organization should not be using LIFO inventory valuation method for one kind of inventory asset and a FIFO inventory valuation method for another. These are different Inventory valuation methods that could result in very different measures reported for the very same material. The entity concept is among the most simple. It means that the accounting is performed for an entity and not for individuals. Obviously, some of the same principles may apply for one's personal financial management, but the accounting reports that we're discussing are for our purposes are focused on the business entity. The matching concept indicates that when costs are incurred, they're associated or matched with the revenues that are associated with them, and then they are treated as expenses in the same period of revenue received. So if a company spends money in June on materials that are used in a product that is sold in October, those costs would be matched with the revenues and recorded as expenses in October. Put another way, when an organization purchases raw materials to produce a product, all those costs are accumulated in the inventory valuation of a particular item and only recognized as an expense in the period when the product is sold. Lastly, the money measurement concept suggests that money is the common measure. The accountant will record only items that are expressed in monetary terms. It seems simple, but we will often find cases where organizations want to quantify things like market share, or competitive advantage, or innovation. All important to a business, but they are not measurable in monetary terms, and for purposes of financial reporting, they are not, therefore, recorded. As suggested, all these principles provide the underpinning for some of the fundamental choices that the accountant has to make regarding product costing, depreciation method, and asset expense. These choices will be addressed in a separate session. Let's talk about key points. I suggested that basic accounting concepts guide the accountant for reporting, and this is going to provide them with the insight as to how to treat the various and sundry transactions of the business. We know that the accountant does have choices, and we'll see how the sum of those very same transactions can result in very different financial reports, depending on the choices that the accountant makes, again, in conjunction with the business. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use the discussion area. I look forward to working with you in a future segment. Thanks.

## Asset or Expense
Hi, welcome to the supply chain finance module. In this segment, we're going to talk about capital asset or expense when it comes to recording transactions. As I have suggested in prior segments, accounting professionals have a number of choices when recording certain transactions. One in particular is the area of product costing and the choices are how to allocate overhead and how to categorize expenses. Additionally, the accountant can choose among different appreciation rates and also decide which expenditures will be treated as period expenses, or as capital asset purchases. Keep in mind that the accountant ought to be making these decisions with the guidance from the business but keeping consistent with generally accepted accounting principles, also known as GAP. In this segment, we will address the latter option of asset or expense categorization. Now, some expenditures can possibly be treated as either a period expense or a capital asset. If treated as a period cost, it means recording the expenditure as a cost for that accounting period, which increases reported costs on the income statement and lowers taxable income. If the expenditure is treated as a capital asset, it means that the funds expended would show up not as an expense on the income statement, but as an asset on the balance sheet. Choosing the capital asset option can make the income statement look better because there would be lower expenses and, therefore, higher income. But that also comes with an obligation to pay more taxes. The real question for the accountant and the businesses is what's the best way to fairly represent the transaction? If the purchase will provide the business with lasting value to the firm, it may be more accurate record the purchase as a capital asset which would reflect higher assets for the firm compared to recording a transaction as an expense. Let's look at a few examples to show how this would affect the income statement and balance sheet. And keep in mind that many of the assets are those that will be used in the supply chain. In this instance, we see that the firm purchases a machine for $25,000 on December 31st with the intention that it would be used as a prototype. This could be treated as an expense or as a capital asset purchase. Now, let's walk through this. In this particular case, the prototype purchase is being considered as an expense. Well, apparently the assumption by the business would be that it's useful in their first year and beyond that it does not have lasting value to the firm. Well, in that particular case, in year one there is no impact on revenue but there is a change in expense, because that $25,000 would be recorded as a period expense and listed as $25,000 part of the operating cost. Now, this results in a negative $25,000 impact on net income. Now, on the balance sheet in your one, there are two offsetting transactions. Because it was paid for in cash, there is a drop in the current asset cash balance of $25,000. This is offset on the other side of the balance sheet with a drop in the owner's equity of $25,000. Now, because this was recognized as an expense in year one, there are no other transactions to record in year two. Now, let's look at this same purchase and treat it as a capital asset. Perhaps, the logic here would be that the machine while only a prototype could provide long term value to the firm by helping the firm understand its use and the potential development of future products by the company. So one could make that argument. Now, let's walk through this particular case. On the income statement in year one there is no impact on revenue, operating cost or profit or net income because there are no expenses to report and there's no impact on revenue. On the balance sheet in year one, however, there are again two offsetting transactions. Again, because it was paid for cash, there is a drop in the current asset cash balance of $25,000. This is offset in the long term asset category by an increase $25,000. Again, because we are now adding that $25,000 prototype as an asset and, therefore, we record it as an asset on the books. Now, there is no impact on liabilities or equity in your one. Now, in year two we take into consideration depreciation. Now, you may say, wait a minute-- hold on, not so fast, here. Why don't we include depreciation in year one? Well, in this case, the purchase was made on the last day of December-- December 31st-- and it would not be reasonable to charge a depreciation expense for the entire year when there was only one day of possible use out of 365 days. This is, of course, assuming that their fiscal year is the same as the calendar year. Charging one day of depreciation expense for such an item would fall into the category of an immaterial transaction. But in your two, there should be a depreciation expense recognized. Now, in this case, it appears that the firm has decided that the prototype would provide value for a five year period. Why? Well, because we know that the asset is worth $25,000 and if they're depreciating $5,000, well, they're doing that over a five year period. Now, as we see here, again, assuming that would be using the straight line depreciation method. So in the income statement of year two, we'd see this depreciation expense of $5,000 which results in a decrease in the netting income of $5,000. Now, on the balance sheet in your two, once again there are two offsetting transactions. There is a decrease in the long term asset value $5,000. Why is that? Well, because this is reflecting the reduction in the value of that prototype. It started out being worth $25,000, now, after we take into account the $5,000 expense for use of that prototype in your two, it is now worth $20,000. So this reflects a reduction in the value of that prototype on the books. This is offset on the other side of the balance sheet with a drop in the owner's equity of $5,000 as well. So the same transaction-- a purchase of a prototype for $25,000-- can result in very different financial records, depending on the assumptions and treatment decisions made by the accountant, again, in conjunction with the business. So let's talk about key points. Certain expenditures can be considered capital asset purchases or purity expenses. And this reflects, of course, one of the choices that the account has, again, in conjunction with the business leadership-- I keep saying that because it's important. The accountant must work hand in hand with the business leaders to make consensus decisions about what the proper treatment is for these different transactions. And as we've just seen in this example, depending on the method used for recording those transactions, you get very different results. And as supply chain managers, we need to understand the possible ways that the financial reports are recording and reporting the assets as well as the expenses of the business. If you have any questions, comments, or discussions, please use the discussion area. And I look forward to working with you in a future segment. Thank you.

## Inventory Valuation Methods
Hi. Welcome to the Supply Chain Finance module. This segment will focus on inventory valuation methods, specifically last in, first out and first in, first out methods, more commonly known as LIFO and FIFO. Now, to understand the importance of inventory valuation, we only need to start to understand the importance of inventory. Inventory is fundamental to business because it is what is used to serve customer demand. Now, inventory is also used as a buffer to demand and supply variation, and it also enables immediate response and often sustained response in the aftermath of some disruptions. So inventory enables a business a serve its mission. Now, inventory is one of the primary assets our supply chain managers are charged with managing, and as such, it is critically important that we as supply chain managers understand those assets in order to best manage them and utilize them to serve the business needs. Now, if you're going to manage these inventory assets, you need to be able to keep track of those assets. In order to keep track of them, you actually have to measure them. Now, how does one measure inventory? Your first thought may be to say that, well, maybe we should measure inventory in terms of units because most of the time, customers buy finished goods and products in units, right? While that is true in most cases, it won't due to measure units on a financial report. Let's recall the money measurement concept, which tells us that money is the common measure. Therefore, we measure inventory in monetary terms. And so instead of counting units, we're going to be counting inventory in terms of money. Now, there are a number of different methods used for accounting for the cost of inventory, and we see a handful of them here, including several different averages, simple, weighted, and moving average, for example. But the ones we're going to be speaking about are the last two methods listed here, which are the last in, first out or LIFO and the first in in, first out inventory valuation methods. Before we explain LIFO and FIFO further, let's understand how the sale of a product is recorded, the transaction that involves inventory valuation. Whenever the company sells a product it, receives revenue or the promise of revenue, a receivable. In order to record that transaction, the accountant has to match the revenue of that product sale with the cost of the product. What is the cost of the product? It is whatever has been built into the inventory valuation up to that point in time. And for the products that are purchased and resold, the LIFO and FIFO method are two suitable options for inventory valuation. Depending on the method chosen, that cost will vary depending on which inventory valuation methods we use. But a central concept for you to understand is that with some of the inventory valuation methods, the product flows are different than the financial flows. If we use the last in, first out method, we use the cost of the items that were purchased most recently, meaning the last received in. And then when we're using the first in, first out method, we're using that cost of the products that were purchased originally, or the oldest products on the books. We'll talk more in detail about that in just a moment. But importantly, you must understand that the physical product flows are not exactly the same as financial flows, meaning that what happens in the factory or warehouse is not exactly what we record in the financial books. In the financial books, we want to keep track of which items came in first and which items came in last because they're going to be recorded at different costs. In the factory, all the same materials are treated as being the same, meaning that they are not used in the order received but in order of convenience. That's most of the time. Assume that a factory worker receives 10 units of a particular item on one day, and the following week receives another 10 units. All of those units are going to a bin. And the first one that the worker pulls out are not necessarily going to be the ones that were purchased earlier. In many cases, it's a random grab. And in most cases, the order of the use of those materials doesn't impact the quality or performance of the product. So while the factory and warehouses use materials of the same type that were received at different times independent of the actual receipt of the materials, the financial books record the use of the materials in actual order of receipt. Let's start with last in, first out inventory valuation. LIFO is a valuation method used mainly in the US because there are some specific tax laws that permit accounting for inventory values that effectively defer the payment of taxes until a later point in time. Using the LIFO or last in, first out method, the accountant uses the most recent cost of inventory when matching the revenue of a sale with the cost of the inventory. That means that even though the company may have inventory on hand that was purchased at a different, usually lower, cost, the accountant matches the revenue using the most recent cost of inventory. In most cases the cost of materials increases over time, and therefore, using LIFO, it is possible that the inventory remaining on the books will be worth more than actually what is recorded. Or put another way, the inventory on hand would have a higher replacement value than what is represented on the financial books. So oftentimes inventory valuations using LIFO may be undervalued. So keep in mind that if we buy 100 units of a particular raw product or raw material on January 1st and we buy another 100 units on March 1st, but we use only 50 units, if we're using the last in, first out method, we're using the cost for 50 units from the March 1st purchase, which means that the items that remain in inventory-- all 100 units from January and 50 units from March-- will be valued at the purchase price at those particular times. Presumably, the items purchased in January were purchased at a lower cost, again assuming that the raw material purchase prices increase over time. Let's contrast LIFO with first in, first out inventory or FIFO valuation. Like LIFO, it is a valuation method, but it is used broadly-- not just in the United States, but around the world. FIFO uses the oldest cost or the cost associated with materials that were purchased at the earliest point in time when matching the revenue from a sale with the inventory cost. What that means is that the materials that remain in inventory on the books are those with costs that were incurred most recently. Put another way, the costs that remain in inventory are the costs that are associated with the most recent purchase. What does that mean to the inventory valuation? It means that inventory valued using FIFO will likely be valued at market replacement costs or the cost for us to go out in the marketplace right now and replace that inventory. Because effectively, the inventory on hand, at least on the books, is what was purchased most recently at market prices. Now, in use, financial reports will be different depending on which one of these methods are used. Using the LIFO method will likely report a higher cost than FIFO because the costs that are being matched with the revenue are the costs from the last in or most recent purchase. This assumes that material costs are increasing over time. You've heard me say that a few times. It's important to keep that in mind. Well, when you have a higher cost associated with the inventory, that means you'll have a lower profit to report. And with a lower profit, then you, of course, will have a lower tax obligation, at least in the current period. When using FIFO, it's the exact opposite. FIFO reports a lower cost associated with this sale because it assumes the materials that are associated with that sale are the ones that were purchased at the earliest point in time. Again, with our assumption that material costs increase over time, those costs would be lower, which means that there will be a higher profit reported. That, then, means that there will be a higher current tax obligation. Let's go through an example to illustrate this. Assume that a company buys a raw material for a product, and it buys it at three different points in time-- January 15th, February 1st, and March 1st. And at each different purchase point, they buy 20 units. But note that the cost of unit-- each unit increases over time. So on January 15th, the cost was $5 per unit. On February 1st, the cost was $10 per unit. And on March 1st, the cost was $15 per unit. Now, let's also assume that the company sells 30 units at $20 each on April 1st. Using the FIFO method, the revenue for the firm is $600 having sold 30 units at $20 each. Now let's look at the cost using FIFO. With FIFO, we use the cost of the first in materials, so we need to identify the cost of the first 30 units. The first 30 units purchased includes materials purchased on January 15th-- that's 20 units-- and some purchased on February 1st. So we use 20 units from January, which were purchased at $5 each, and then another 10 units from the February 1st purchase, which were purchased at $10 each. That gives us a total cost of $200 and a net income of $400. Now, assume that there's a 20% tax rate, and therefore, the tax in that particular sale is $80. Given that, what is the value of the remaining inventory? Well, as we see here, we can calculate that. There are 10 units remaining from the February 1st purchase at the $10 price, so that's 10 units at $10, or $100. And then there's 20 units remaining at the $15 price from the March 1st, purchase or $300. The value of the remaining inventory is therefore $400. That's the $100 plus the $300. There is no inventory in the books remaining from the January 1st purchase. Those items were already used for the sale of the 30 units. Let's compare that with the LIFO method. Using the LIFO method, we have the same revenue of $600, but our costs are going to be different because we're going to use the different valuation method. Now, with LIFO, we used the cost of the last in materials, so we'll need to identify the cost of the most recently purchased, or last in, 30 units. The last 30 units purchased includes materials purchased on March 1st-- would be 20 units-- and some purchased on February 1st. So we use 20 units from1 March, which were purchased at $15 each, and then another 10 units from February st purchase, which were purchased at $10 each. That gives us a total cost of $400 at a net income of $200. Well, look at this. What a stark contrast. We have different net incomes reported-- $400 for FIFO and $200 for LIFO. And we have different tax obligations-- $80 for for FIFO and $40 for LIFO. And then interestingly enough, the value of the remaining inventory is recorded as being quite different-- $400 versus $200. Keep in mind that we still have 30 units remaining in each of these different valuations, just that they are valued at different purchase costs. With FIFO, we see a higher reported net income and a higher tax obligation in the near-term, as well as a higher valuation of the inventory. In contrast, with LIFO, as we've suggested earlier, the inventory may actually be undervalued as compared to the FIFO inventory. So let's talk about key points. There are different ways to value inventory, and we discussed two of the more popular methods of LIFO and FIFO. LIFO uses the most recent cost of inventory to match revenue from sales, and this typically results in lower-stated profits, again, assuming material costs are increasing over time. As we have seen from the example, therefore, the remaining inventory can be undervalued. FIFO uses the oldest cost of inventory to match revenue with sales, and this typically results in a higher potential profit, but it does incur near-term term tax obligations that you don't have with LIFO. As a result, the remaining inventory, using a FIFO system, is more likely to be associated or closely associated with the current market value or current replacement cost of that inventory. Considering that the impact these two different valuation methods have on financial statements, it is important for supply chain managers to become familiar with the inventory valuation method being used in the business in order to fully appreciate the assets on hand and how those assets, inventory, are being used in the financial reports and to serve the business. Just using our example, we observed that two inventories with the exact same number of units could have financial valuations with one being twice as large as the other. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use the discussion area, and I look forward to seeing you in the next session. Thanks.

## Connecting Transactions to Financial Statements
Hi, welcome to the supply chain finance module. This segment, we'll focus on connecting supply chain transactions to the financial statements. In the world of the supply chain manager, we are often focused on the tangible aspects of our work, inventory management, forecasting, distribution planning, capacity planning, and how the design of the supply chain can create competitive advantage. These are indeed important for the supply chain manager, but today's supply chain manager needs to be able to communicate what we do in the supply chain to those in leadership positions. And we need to be able to do so using a language that leaders understand. That is the language of finance. And so this segment, we'll make a connection between all those things we do on the supply chain with the financial statements, so that we as supply chain managers can effectively communicate with leadership regarding the impact of our work on the business in financial terms. We start with two basic but important financial statements, the income statement and the balance sheet. We must also consider other factors relating to the accounting, including financial accounting, tax accounting, managerial accounting, the core accounting principles, and the inventory valuation methods of LIFO and FIFO. Altogether, the statements and the accounting methods set the foundation of knowledge for identifying how supply chain activities impact the balance sheet and the income statement. To start off, we first consider one fundamental transaction that involves the supply chain, the sale of finished goods. We'll use this as an example to understand how these different transactions impact the financial statements. The case is a simple one. A company sells a printing system for $10,000 in cash. The product cost $2,000 for the company to produce it. What is the impact on the income statement? Well, because they sold the product for $10,000, the income statement would reflect an increase of $10,000 in revenue. When a product is sold, the revenue is matched with the costs associated with the product being sold. In this case, the costs associated with the product is $2,000. And therefore, $2,000 of costs are recognized, and costs increase by that amount. You may wonder where those costs were recorded up to that point. Until the sale of the product, those costs were included in the valuation of the inventory, which was maintained as a current asset on the balance sheet. Now, as a result of these two changes, then that income would increase by $8,000. So that accounts for the impact on the income statement. But what about the impact on the balance sheet? Well, because the printing system was sold for $10,000 in cash, the current asset cash account would increase by $10,000. And as previously noted, because we sold the product and it carried a cost of $2,000, the current asset inventory account would decrease by $2,000. Because that inventory was removed, and the costs associated with selling that product was matched with the revenue. Therefore, we have a net increase on the asset side of the balance sheet of $8,000. Well, that comes from $10,000 minus the $2,000, and that gives you the $8,000. Remembering that assets always equal liabilities where liabilities include short term liabilities, long term liabilities, and equity, the liabilities side must also show an increase of $8,000. And that's where we see that this increase of $8,000 increase in retained earnings. Another way to illustrate this is to show both the income statement and the balance sheet at the same time attract the changes coming from this very same case. This helps us understand how the transaction of sale works this way through each of these different statements. Again, it's a graphical representation. We're going over the same material. Let's start with the sale. We sell a product for $10,000. Here again revenue is increased by $10,000. We're getting $10,000 in cash, so our current asset of cash account goes up by $10,000. Well OK, we recognize the cost of goods sold for the products that we sold. In this case, the cost of the system was $2,000, so there's our $2,000 increase in costs. Well, but at the same time in the balance sheet that $2,000 cost was matched with the revenue, and that takes out $2,000 from the inventory current asset account, the current asset inventory account that is. With that impact here of course, shows the convergence of these activities, these transactions. On the income statement, we have $10,000 minus the $2,000, and that gives us an $8,000 increase in profit. On the balance sheet, we see a net increase in assets of $8,000, mentioned that before. And then, of course the corresponding increase on the right side of the balance sheet-- with the liabilities under the total liabilities-- with an increase of $8,000 in owner's equity. Now, we've only talked about one transaction or one type of transaction, the sale of a product. But how do we represent the impact of other supply chain initiatives on the financial reports? For example, how would improving operational performance impact the financial statements, such as improving the cycle time, making faster deliveries, or increasing inventory terms? Well, this slide provides a line item for a number of different supply chain changes and offers a linkage to various financial reports and elements in the financial reports. Let's start with order cycle times we see up here, and I'll walk through each of these different items. If the company improves the order cycle time, the production and delivery cycle is shorter, meaning that your cash cycle is going to be shorter, too. You're going to get your cash sooner. Well, therefore your accounts receivable will likely be smaller, because you're receiving the cash more quickly than you had otherwise. As a result of the faster order cycle time, the company will not need as much inventory, and therefore the faster order cycle time may result in lower capital costs, which means lower cost and higher net income. Let's think about this. If the company reduces the order cycle time, that usually means that the warehousing operation has to handle the product fewer times, because they're not storing it, and pulling it out, and storing it again, and moving products around in the warehouse, which means that the warehousing costs would be lower. That shows up in the income statement as a reduction in cost. Now, because the company has improved the order cycle time, you're able to get the product to market more quickly than your competitor. And you have therefore created some competitive advantage. How does that competitive advantage impact the financial statements? Well, having a competitive advantage means that with all things being the same, the customers would prefer your product to your competitor's product. In the marketplace that means that with a competitive advantage the company can choose to sell more product at the same price as their competitor, which would increase their market share. Or the company can choose to sell their product for a higher price, which would increase their profits. In both cases, the company would increase their revenues by virtue of the actions that they've taken, either from more unit sales or from the same unit sales but at a higher price. Let's look at some of the other supply chain initiatives that may impact the financial reports. If the firm improves their ability to deliver on time orders, that means that the company will likely have higher customer satisfaction ratings. And therefore, the company may enjoy some additional competitive advantage. Just as we've discussed, the competitive advantage can finds its way to increase the revenue on the income statement. With an increase in on time orders, delays are reduced, which probably entails lower transportation cost, because there's no embedded cost for delays or surcharges for delays in those transportation cost. This shows up in the income statement as a reduction in cost. Now, if the company's able to produce and ship products and deliver them as ordered-- meaning exactly as what the customer's ordered-- that means the company has a higher fill rate, which means getting their cash faster. Because they're not arguing with the customer about what product was sold and whether they got the right stuff. They got the right stuff, and therefore their bills are going to be submitted, and they'll be paid within their particular cycle time, which practically speaking means the company's cash is not tied up in those silly arguments between companies about whether they got the right product or not. Now let's also look at accurate billing. If the company can improve billing accuracy, that means reducing the invoicing errors, which means the company will likely have lower order management costs. And again, that shows up in the income statement as a reduction in cost. And then lastly, improving inventory turns can impact the balance sheet and the income statement. With an increase in inventory turns, the requirement for inventory drops, meaning that less inventory is required to support the same level of sales. And therefore, one would expect that you would see a lower current asset inventory account. And similar to some of the other improvements, with less inventory, there's less handling, which means lower costs. And possibly with less inventory the company may not need all of the existing distribution centers. Well, if that happens, then-- and the company were elected to actually eliminate a distribution center, then the impact would show up as a reduction on the balance sheet in the long term asset, plant property, and equipment account. So as we see, with each of these initiatives, they find their way to the income statement and the balance sheet. Let's look at the same supply chain initiatives and their impact on the financial statements graphically. We'll do this quickly just to give you an idea, another kind of look at the same assessment. An improvement in service level creates competitive advantage that can lead to market share gains and price premiums, which lead to higher revenues. And we see how these hit the income statement and resulting increased profits, which then show up on the balance sheet in retained earnings. Lower cost from improved order management, less handling, and lower capital cost shows up in the income statement as reductions in cost and the associated increase in profits. Lower inventory could result in lower cost in the income statement and increases in cash and reduction in inventory levels on the balance sheet. Cycle time improvements can create competitive advantage, which we have seen how that impacts the statements. It also impacts lower inventory levels, which we have just discussed, and it could also make for lower capital costs, which impacts the profits on the income statement. Finally, inventory turns can affect the balance sheet by requiring less current asset inventory on the books, requiring lower working capital. So we see here there are lots of connections from the supply chain to the financial statements. So let's talk about key points. We've shown we can connect supply chain transactions and the impact of initiatives directly to the income statement and the balance sheet. This is incredibly powerful. This allows a supply chain leader to communicate directly with the company leaders in the primary language of business. That is in financial terms. There's great power available to the supply chain managers who are able to do this, recognizing that this ability derives for understanding the foundation of accounting principles, practices, and application of these to the supply chain domain. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use the discussion area. And I look forward to seeing you in the next session.
