# week07 lesson2 optimization based procurement

(SC2x video lecture transcript)

## Optimization-Based Procurement
Hi, everybody. This is Yossi Sheffi. In this lesson, we'll talk about procurement optimization. When buying products or services, companies are trying to make sure that they'll get the best deal. The question is, what constitutes best? Usually, it's the lowest cost. So let's talk about lowest cost in terms of best. But this means that the auctioneers choice of winner involves an optimization trying to get this best deal. However, in real life, the questions are much more complicated. Companies are trying to fulfill not only one objective like lowest cost, but in many cases, are trying to get the best service, and even they try to fulfill other objectives, such as social goals. And we'll talk about this. Throughout this lesson we'll talk about various conditions on the optimization, or on the choice, of the winning suppliers for various parts of the business. One of the characteristics of multiple item procurement, which in many cases companies are conducting multiple items at the once, is that the controlling economics could economies of scope, not economies of scale. What does it mean, economies of scope? The costs of the supplier are lower if it can provide several related items. For example, if the same supplier can provide us the navigation system and the radio, then its costs may be lower. And if we evaluate the radio suppliers and the navigation system suppliers separately, we may not take advantage of it. So in the last part of the lesson, we will explain how to conduct the bundled, or combinatorial, procurement auctions, and take advantage of such economies of scope when we can get a better price if we let the supplier provide us some related items. So let's start with this lesson. As I mentioned before, we'll talk about several conditions. We'll start with simple auctions. Then we will deal with capacity constraint. Then we will deal with various other constraint on the supplier. We'll deal with minimum volume requirements. We'll deal with volume discounts that a supplier offers. And we'll deal with combinatorial auction. These are the type of auction that take into account economies of scope. So recall the basic process of auction. Every procurement is an auction. And the procurement team usually estimate the requirement for the next performance period, maybe yeah, maybe two year, or maybe the life of the next model. And then their requirements are communicated to the supplier, to the bidder, usually at some supply conference or by email. And each suppliers then submits a bid. In this case, we're talking about first price sale bid auctions. In most procurement auctions, one does not conduct English auctions with many, many rounds, because it is complicated. There are many, many items, and we don't want to sell each item separately. We don't want to buy each item separately. So by and large, we do a first prize sale bid auction. And you'll see later why it's the right type of auction for procurement. In some cases, when the items are bought are separate, and there are many suppliers in a simple option, in that case, some companies have conducted internet-based, English-type auctions, when the prices go down, down, down. And suppliers are bidding on this. General Electric is famous for this. But in most procurement auctions, one use first pricing sale bid auctions. The procurement team looks, of course, at all the envelope, and chooses the bidder which is the best. Let's talk about an example which we will carry throughout this lesson. This is an example of procurement for transportation services. So what we have here is a simple network with four lanes, four origin destination pair, a to b, b to c, c back to b, and c to a. And we have two carriers bidding on it. So here are the bids. This is carrier one. And this is carrier two. And these are the various lanes. So carrier one from a to b is bidding $500. And carry two, form a to b, is b bidding $525. Now, this is a very simple situation. You can just look at it and see which carrier is winning what because we're looking here only at the lowest possible cost. But we will add hear something that will allow us to use it in a spreadsheet. What we will add here are the decision variable. So what we have here, inside these cells, are eight values which are simply the number of loads that carrier will carry on each lane. So we start with 10, just a starting value. It doesn't matter what we start with. This is the number of loads per week, let's assume, that each carrier will get. But we'll have later on a requirement that the sum of every row would be only 10. We don't have more than 10 loads on each lane. So the optimization will have to allocate the number of loads between the carriers, so that on each lane we'll have only 10 loads. This is done with a spreadsheet. And this is the spreadsheet. And what we have here are the decision variables, and the-- excuse me-- the prices, and the decision variable. This 40 is simply the sum of all the cost. So it's 500 times 10. 500 times 10. 500 times this 10. 475 times this 10. It's basically the multiplication of all these eight by the corresponding decision variables. So as I mentioned before, this is the sum of each row. So this is c11 to d11, c11 plus d11, basically. This is the sum of all the columns. So this is, then, total number of loads that carrier two is getting, in this case, is the sum along the column. And this is so-called the sum product, is the c3 to d6, which is these eight values times these eight values. And what we do here, we use the solver, the spreadsheet solver, in order to optimize here. And if we get to the solver, we use the data entry at the spreadsheet. And we get to the solver. And this is what the optimization looks at. And this is the solver screen. What we have here is the following. We optimize c19, which is the total cost. We're trying to minimize the total cost. So this is the first one. c19 is the objective, and we try to minimize the total cost, subject to certain constraint. So these are the decision variables. So we try to change these decision variables so that the total cost will be minimized and all these constraints will be met. So the total cost has to be-- this is the total cost has to be minimized by changing these variables and dealing with all of these constraints. And these constraints are-- the first one-- that each one of these entries, each one of these decision variables, is greater than zero, and has to be integer. We don't want to have 1.7 trucks. And the sum of every row is 10. So e12 to e15, which is each one of these variables, which is the sum of the row, equal 10. When we're done, we hit solve. And we get the solution for this simple case. The solution is that the minimum is $19,500. And we see that, as expected, the optimization allocated the loads to the least expensive carrier. So carrier two, because it offered $475 on b to c, as opposed to $500 that carrier one offered, got 10. But in every other lane, in every other origin destination pair, it said the higher cost of the optimization didn't assign anything to it. So this was, basically, what we did. We had to minimize the sum product, subject to integrality, non-negativity, and the sum of every row here equal to 10. And we look at the solution, and we see that the constraint was met. The sum is actually 10. And we get the solution, which is $19,500. This is what the solution look like. Carrier one got this lane, the a to b, got c to b, and c to a. And carrier two got b to c. This was the result of the optimizations. So let me stop here. And we'll talk to you again during the next segment.

## Introducing Constraints
Hi, everybody. Let's continue by introducing some simple constraint at that point really simple into the optimization process, and still just go to the formal spreadsheet-based optimization and see how these are being solved. So let's start with the same situation that we had before. Recall that we had the prices and the starting solution. So we still have the situation when we want 10 loads on every lane. And we start with just randomly assigned ten to every carrier on everything lane. We could assign any other number. It doesn't matter. And the question, now, is what if we want a minimum of carriers on each lane? So we want to introduce a little complication, which is still very simply. And so we just want to set the minimum of 20% of the volume on each lane. You can actually solve this, too, by inspection, but just to make it clear, let's go to the spreadsheet. So this is the spreadsheet, and once you press solve, you get this type of screen. Again, recall that we are looking for c19, that is here. We want to minimize c19. It's right here. This is the cell. We still want to minimize it. And let's see what is the additional constraint that we put it. In addition to having every one of these variables integer, rather than greater than zero, we put it greater than 2. So this is the constraint here. Of course, we still need the constraint that the sum of each row is 10. This is the last constraint, and everything's integer. And once we do this, we can actually press solve, just like before. Here's the solve. And what we get is the solution. So here are the solution. You see that where we had 10-- where we had 10 before, we have 8. Where we had 0 before we have 2. Because we have a constraint. We have to give at least 2 to every one of the carriers on every one of the lanes. So the optimization tries, still, to push the big number towards the low cost. So for example, in a to b we get 8 at $500 and 2 at $525. And we get 2 at $525 because we impose a constraint on the optimization. As a result of this, the previous minimum was $19,500. The previous total cost here was $19,500. It is now $19,700. So in that sense, we got a worse solution. It's not as good as before. Remember, we are trying to minimize the total cost. Our solution is not as good as before. Is it really not as good as before? It really is as good as before, because it now fulfills another constraint. Let's go back and understand that if we minimize just cost, any constraint that we put in optimization can not improve the result. The result can be only the same or worse. So here we put a constraint on it. And the result is worst in terms of the total cost. It's not worse from the business point of view, because from the business point of view, you now have to fulfill more than minimize the cost. You want to protect yourself. There's some risk management here that you want at least two on each one of the lane. Let's now have another type of constraint. This is the same as before, the same data as before. I just added a column here just to show that what we need is 10 on each lane. It doesn't matter how many we put in. We could have done it before or not. Let's now assume that the carriers to the bidding process are not only giving the price, but they are also telling the auctioneer, the company, that there's only so much that they can give on each lane. So carrier one can give only five loads from-- five trucks from a to b. And carrier two can carry only eight loads from a to b. Carrier one on b to c, put 100-- it doesn't matter. It's a very large number. It has to be a very large number relative to the existing capacity. So we put 100 here. So basically this means that carrier one on b to c and carrier two on c to a and c to b have no capacity constraint, basically. So this number here is the maximum load that each carrier can take on a given lane. So let's see how it gets into the optimization. You look at the constraint that we have here. And there is one additional constraint. Each number here, so for example, each of these entries has to be less than this number. So this has to be less than this. And this has to be-- in the solution-- less than this. This has to be less than this, which it will be, of course, because it's a large number. This has to be this, and so on. So this brings us to this constraint. We simply say that, basically, this eight cells have to be each smaller than these eight cells. And now we actually run the optimization and we get the solution. The solution is now here, $19,925. It is also higher than the original solution that we have before. We now don't impose two on every lane. But we have capacity constraint. So a different type of constraint. So it's a different type of total cost. It's higher than the original for the same reason that we mentioned before. The carrier by the bidding process, introducing capacity constraint, constrained optimization in the solution cannot be as good as before. Because for example, before we wanted to give 10 loads to this guys, and zero to this, but we can't do that anymore, because carrier one has only five trucks available for us. He cannot carry more than five loads. So the solution is not as good as before. So this was another example, or two more examples, of constrained optimization, when we introduced constraint into the problem. Let's stop here. And we'll continue in a minute with more constraint, and a few more complications introduced into the optimization process.

## But What About Service?
In this lesson, we will talk about service. We all know that there's more than price to choosing a supplier, especially if it's not a commodity business. If there are not hundreds of suppliers out there, they're all replaceable, they're all competing with each other. This is not a common situation. And in many cases, the service, innovation, reach, and other factors that we all call service are just as important, and sometimes even more important, than the price that we pay just for the item itself, or for the bare-knuckle service. So let's talk about how, in most cases, services are dealt with. So the current practice, by and large, is what's called screen and auction. For example, we're talking here throughout this lesson about tracking, so let's assume that we decide that we want to have only truck companies that are 95% or better on time. So out of all the bidders, we define a group of suppliers, just those whose service meets our minimum service requirement. And among those, we conduct an auction based on price. And this, is some sense, takes into account both service and price. However, it has an important drawback. It's arbitrary. The cutoff point does not allow for trade offs. For example, a 93% service supplier may be out. And a 94% service supplier may be in, regardless of the price. In other words, the 93% service supplier may be substantially lower in price than the 94% supplier. So is it really worth it, such big price difference for 1% level of service. So we want to do it more methodically. So how do we do it within an optimization framework? So let's go through it. Within the framework that we have used to day, what we do is we modified the prices based on service before the optimization. So we use the optimization, as we'll see in a minute, modified prices rather than the price is submitted by the bidders. Let me give you an example, it is much easier to explain to an American example than talk about it in abstract. So let's say there's a supplier who's bidding on one lane, $500. And this supplier is 97% on time supplier. And let's say the 97% is what we care about in this particular example. There's also another supply who is submitting a lower bid for $475, but he's only 94% on time. The question is, do we choose the high service, high cost supplier? Or the low service, low cost supplier? In order to determine, we have to determine how much level of service is worth. Let's assume that level of service is worth $10 per each 1% of service. Somehow we got into this determination, we found out. We'll talk in a minute how to do it. But we decided that each percent of level of service is worth $10. What we do now, we decide on some baseline. And let's standardize on 94%, even though we can standardize on any other baseline. So let's bring everything to 94%, assuming that each 1% of service is worth $10. So the 94% supplier is already had $475. We don't have to move it. But the 97% supplier bid is modified. We take $30 off because his service is 30% better than the standard service. So we look at this supplier as if his cost is $470. Now we conduct the optimization between the two. And we compare $470 to $475. And of course, the 97% supplier will be chosen. At the end, of course, we don't pay $470. We pay $500. We pay the bid that this supplier gave us. But since we decided that each 1% level of service was worth $10, we should be happy with this choice. Of course, the challenge here is to estimate the value of the level of service. And there is no easy way to do it. Usually, it's done by-- I could call it-- argument. You can call it discussion between sales people, marketing people, operating people, plant people. They all come together. And through this discussion, they have to decide on the value of level of service. So it's something that comes from the outside in the optimization. But once this level is decided, we can conduct optimization. And I'll show you in a minute how. So now we have the following. We have the original bids here, the original table here with the initial values. And here we have this table is the level of service of each carrier on each lane. And this is an auxiliary table that we are creating for the purposes of this optimization. So what do we do here? First of all, we define level of service, so each supply and each item in percent per lane. This is what was done right here. Now we define what a percentage level of service is worth. So using the same example, we decide that each 1% is worth $10. The next step is we define a standard level of service. In this case, because it doesn't matter which one we define. These are all linear, and the result will be the same. But we define a standard level of service as 92, in this case. So now we have to bring each one of these bids up or down to 92. To modify each bid according to the service, relative to the standard. So for example, why is this $450? Because carrier one on a and b is bidding $500. His level of service here is 97%, which means he's 5% better than 92. So we have to take down 50 points, 92 minus 97 times 10, and add the original bid. So we get $450. Why is this bid here $515? He bid $475. But we look at him as $515, because 88 is four points lower than 92. So we have to increase it by 40. We have to increase the $475 by 40 and we get $515. Now we take into the optimization, we do it a little differently. We don't multiply this value by the variables to get the objective function. We multiply this value, these modify prices, by these variables. And this gives us a modified objective function. See, this is the modified objective function that we get after multiplying these variables, these prices, these modified prices, by this. Now we go into the optimization. So the sum product here is l4 m7, which is here, times these eight values. Now we get into the optimization. And we conduct the optimization. Before-- there's actually no constraint here, just a set of modified prices. But something strange is happening here. We get that the objective function here value is lower, lower than the original. Unconstrained it was $19,500, totally unconstrained value. So how come the value now is lower than what we got initially? Well, let's think about it for a minute. What did we do here? We modified the prices. So actually, if we look, this is what we got, by multiplying this times this. But what the carriers will get, and what the company will pay, is not this times this. It's actually the original bids times the value. So the real objective function will be $20,000 here, which is higher than the original one. Because now we used modified prices. So it is different. The sum product-- this was the sum product of the l4 m7. This x value times the variables. While this is the sum product of these, c4 d7 here times the value that we have here. OK, let's go to optimization with item attributes, which is explain what we did here. A service is a supplier item attribute, which means it's tied to specific suppliers and specific lanes. We can associate each type of price or condition with individual item of a given supplier. Many examples of this, for example, supplier can be familiar with a certain name. Supplier can be [INAUDIBLE] readiness on certain lane. He has a certain percentage of damage and wrong delivery on a particular lane. He has on time performance on each lane. These are all lane attributes. They can associate with each lane of each item, separately. As opposed to what we are going to talk about in a minute, which are system attributes rather than item attributes or lane attributes. So let's stop here, and we'll move into the next segment in a minute.

## System Attributes / Constraints - Part I
In this segment we will talk about system attributes or system constraint. So the first order of business is to explain what they are. And it can be explained through an example. Recall that the capacity constraint that we had before were item level conditions, or item level constraint. What does it mean? We had the condition that on a particularly lane, a particular carrier can carry only x loads. I think carrier one a to b could carry only five, or whatever. This is an item level constraint because it's a particular origin destination pair on a particular item up for bid. There could be also system level constraint. For example, the vendor may say, I can give you only so many trucks, or I can serve only so many lanes, or I can do only so much business with you. So you now you have to find the best solution, the cost-minimizing solution, subject to the fact that you meet the carrier demand, or you meet the carrier constraint. So this is now a system constraint. And a system constraint, there are many types. It's not the one-- and we'll give some example. We'll talk about it more as we go along here. By and large, they require the introduction of more elaborate mathematical constraints of the optimization. We always represent this condition through constraint, because we want to meet this condition or this attributes of the problem, so we introduce a constraint and make sure that they get the minimum cost subject to the fact that this condition is met. So we introduce this as a constraint into the optimization. Another example of system condition is vendor preference. Here, the vendor does not put up the condition, we as the auctioneer, or as the procurement department, put certain conditions. For example, we would like a certain carrier to get at least that much money because we like them. Or we like a certain carrier to be the carrier of choice of not more than 25 lanes, because we're not sure about them. Or whatever, whatever the reason is. But this is a condition that we introduce. But again, since we want to meet this condition, we introduce it through a constraint. And we let the optimization minimize cost subject to meeting this condition. In both cases, by the way, whether it's item constraint or system constraint, item or system attributes, the resulting optimization cannot have a better solution than before. It cannot have a lower cost than before. The cost can be only the same or worse. So this doesn't matter if it's item condition or system condition. So let's talk about the first example. In the first example, we introduce a fleet constraint. So each one of the carriers here can say, I can serve only 25 shipments. I say use the same number, just as an example. It doesn't matter. You can use any number here. Here are the tables are the same. The construct are exactly what we had before. But when we look at the spreadsheet, what we have to make sure, the extra constraint here, is that this number, which is actually the sum of the loads that this carrier, carrier number one, carries, has to be less than this number. So we have to make sure that the resulting number after the optimization is less than 25. Also, the same thing for the other carriers. So the total the number, the sum of the loads that this carrier is carrying, which is here, is less than its condition. So here is the extra constraint. We say that de16 is less than j8 k8. If we look at it in the solver screen, this is the extra solution. And here we get the solution. So we see here that the total cost is higher than $19,500 we had before. This is to be expected. We just add a constraint. And we see that the conditions are met. We see that none of the carriers has more than 25 loads. In order to meet the constraint, if you tried to compare the solution to the original solution, the original solution had 10 and zero. So this optimization moved five loads from carrier one to carry two on a to b, because it figured this is the best way to minimize the cost and still meet this constraint. Turns out it's not the only way. In this particular case, there's also in additional solution that will have exactly the same total cost, meet the constraint in exactly the same way. But you see that the location of loads to carrier is different. That's OK. You can have different solution as long as the constraints are met and the total cost is the same. This happens, by and large, because of quirks by the optimization. We're not going to get into it. Let's now talk about other example of preferred supplier or condition that we may put in. For example, a condition that's very common in the United States is that minority carriers or women-owned businesses should get at least x percent of the business. This is part of the social mission of corporation, try to encourage diversity. A company may say, I want to make sure that incumbent suppliers, those that I dealt with last year, will get at least 50% of the business. This is a very common system constraint because companies don't want to change everything. It is too complex to introduce everybody into their system. So they want to have some carriers that know the system before. Where they are being used, it's not clear, let the optimization determinate it. How many of them are being used? If it's 50% or 60%, I want this at least 50% to be the old carriers that I know. Another constraint can be, my brother-in-law is running a trucking company, should get at least a million dollars out of this auction. OK, I don't know where my brother-in-law will get the million dollars. And I want to make sure that in total I can minimize the cost, subject to the fact that my brother-in-law will get at least a million dollars. So let's now talk about a different type of constraint. We are now trying to put a minimum volume constraint, similar to the brother-in-law constraint. And want to make sure that carrier two gets at least $13,000. In order to introduce this constraint, we have to add the construct here. We have to add this particular row to the spreadsheet. This row is the total dollars that each carrier get. And it's simply a multiplication of this times this, the cost times the number of loads on each lane. So this gets with this cost. And this gets me this cost. Here we are. This is the optimization. This is the minimum dollar volume for carrier two. And this is the sum product of this times this. And here's the sum product of this times this. And we now go to the optimization. And we introduce the condition that the first condition is that the, here, this is greater or equal than this. So we have to have at least 10 on each lane, the integrality, the non-negativity, and now the condition that these two have to be bigger than these two, which means that this has to be bigger than this. And this has to be bigger than this. So we want-- we have actually no condition on carrier one, because he can get more than zero. That's not a constraint, really. The constraint is that carrier two should get at least $13,000. So this is the solver screen. And if we run through the solution, we get that here is the minimum, which is higher than before, because we introduce another constraint, of course. But notice that the constraint is met-- the constraint is that, basically, carrier one gets more than zero. It's not a constraint. But carrier two gets over $13,000. The constraint is met. The question is, why does it get the-- obviously, we don't like carrier two. It's too expensive because the solution is higher. Why do we give carrier two more than $13,000? Why doesn't it stay exactly with $13,000? And the reason is that we use integrality here. If we would have allowed the optimization to assign 5.92 carriers, or whatever, this would've been an exact solution. So we would have given carrier two exactly $13,000. But because of integrality, Because we have to give integer number, we cannot hit exactly $13,000.

## System Attributes / Constraints - Part II
Let's now talk about the different type of constraint. And this is volume discount. We now have carrier 1. Carrier 2, in this case, does not give volume discount. Only carrier 1 gives volume discounts. And the way carrier 1 gives volume discount is, in fact, explained here and here. In each case, carrier 1 says, the first five loads are going to be more expensive than the rest. So you have to give me. I'll give you two prices. Let's look at [INAUDIBLE] A to B. I'll give you five 20 and 500. But you have to give me at least five loads of the 520 in order to enjoy the 500 price. Or here, you have to, on c to a you have to give me at least five loads at 500 in order to enjoy the and 480 price. So we introduce here a whole set of row And a whole set of new variables. We just change carrier 1. And we call it 1 and 1, also. 1 is the number of laws that carrier 1 is getting under the expensive price. And I also, here is the number of loads that carrier one gets under the lower price. This price. The problem with this, if we just go to the optimisation is-- the optimization is done. Find the best solution, which will be assign everything to the lowest cost. Everything that assigned to carrier 1 will be assigned to this cost here, to the low cost. Somehow we have to force the optimization to say, you cannot use the low cost until you pay the higher price for at least five loads. In order to do it, this is just repeating what I said is the cost for five loads. This is the cost for greater than 5 loads. This is the minimum at the high rate for the carrier. There's no capacity basically on the low rate. And we just introduced carrier 2 has certain capacity. So now let's see what we do. And by the way, this is the sum product. The sum product is for everything. So it's multiplied all these three columns by these three columns. The sum, of course, will still need to be 10. So let's see how we deal with it. We basically introduce a constraint. Call it the break for-- the constraint is for each lane. So for each lane, the break times the expensive flow, times the inexpensive flow. And this applies only to carrier 1 in this example. So the break is this number. In this case, the expensive flow, the number, it's the number of loads done under the expensive flows here. And the chief flow is the number of loads done on the chief flow. Let's see what does it mean. We introduce it into the optimization. We call it, cap. That the break is the break or capacity. This is the capacity times the flow under the expensive price, times the flow under the cheap price. This is what comes into here. So this is minus 50, because it's 5 minus 10 times 10. So 5 minus 10 times 10 is minus 50. And it's the same for each one of them. And what we want to introduce is we don't want to look at this as a constraint. We want to make sure that this will be equal 0 for each one of the rules. Why do we want each one to keep 0? Because in this case, either this or this has to be 0, which means that we cannot use S1 also. We can not use the cheap [INAUDIBLE] price until S1 is equal to the cap, until as one equals 5. If S1 is less than 5, this must be 0 in order for the product to be 0. So this kind of forces the optimization to first use the high price and then the low price. So this is just what we talked about before, 5 times 10 times 10 is minus 50. And each one of those has to be equal to 0. So I also can be positive only if I equal to the capacity, which is 5 in this case. So we now look at the particular example. And here is the spreadsheet. And you see each cell, in this case j4, which is here, minus c12. This is capacity minus S1, times d12, which is here. This is S1 also, has to be 0. And this is true for each one of the rows. So here, we introduce this condition. This is the condition. j12 to j15 equals 0. So what does it look like? This is this particular condition simply says that these are capacities. So any number here has to be smaller than the corresponding number here. And this is the condition of the rows, that we have to have 10 loads at least 10 loads. And this is, as I mentioned before, the conditions of you have to give at least 5 to carrier 1 on the high price before you get the low price. So if we run this optimization, we get first of all the condition is met. So these are all 0s, which means you see here that we want to use, for example, carrier 1, what we want to use the low price on a to b. But we have to first use the high price, then we can use the low price. And this is the same for each one of them. Of course, for c to b, it's better to use-- here, it's better to use carrier 2. So here we get another solution. And see, as expected the solution is higher than before, because we introduced a constraint. But this is the solution. Let's move on beyond this particular example of volume discount. The important thing is that there are all kinds of tricks and considerations in order to impose what we want in the solution or the optimization. Let's give you a real example of a system requirement. It's called a core carrier program. This particular example from a company that I used to work with. And this is several years ago. They were, they wanted to reduce the number of carriers. These is a large company throughout the US. And they were served by hundreds of carriers. And management said, we need to reduce the number of supply that we do business with, because we want to have better relationships with the supplier, closer relationship. Let's have just them. The question is why 10, and does it make any sense. So they wanted to take the large number, introduce a small number. So the question, how much does it cost to reduce the carrier base. So let me show you exactly what happened. The question is the lost opportunity cost. Limiting the number of carriers is a constraint. You say, I want only 10 carriers that you yourself, introduce. The question is, how much does it cost you to introduce this type of contract. You will have a higher cost solution. And the main question is, is it worth it? So this is an actual example. These are the [INAUDIBLE]. So the bidding was done with 200 carriers. And these were the results. So this is the annual expenditure here. And this is the number of carriers that we constrained. So we did optimization with 200 carriers. Then we said, OK, let's try, let's constrain it to 10. Turns out that it was infeasible. You could not find a solution with only 10 carriers. The best that you could find is find a solution with about 12 carriers. 12 carriers, we could find a solution. So we rerun the optimisation and say, 12 carries. We get a solution that's-- I don't know, 76 million dollars. Then we run the solution over and over again. We run 15 with 20 with 25 with 30 with 35. Notice several things. After a certain point, the graph stays flat. It doesn't go up. It doesn't go down. The reason is that, at that point, you already identified the number of winning carriers that's optimal. So adding more carriers does not do anything. It's the extra constraint that's so-called non-binding. This constant doesn't constrain the solution. So that's important to know. That after a certain point, probably here or somewhere here, the solution stays flat. The question now is OK, so how many carriers do we need? Based on this, how many carriers to take? You look at this. And the answer is you need another piece of information. In order to decide how many carriers to actually use, you need to know what's the cost of dealing with an extra carrier. You know, there is a cost of dealing with extra carriers. You have to set that carrier on your system. You have to give them reviews. You have to set up payment with them. So there are costs of dealing with each carrier. Once you know this cost, you can now say, what's the number of carriers. And this cost will look like a line that. And you see where it is tangent to this graph. And it's coming out to about here. So it turns out the solution was about 25 carriers. This was this the line represents the cost of dealing with an extra carrier. And given that, we can now determine that the best solution in this case is 25 carriers. But recall what we did here. We ran successive optimization. We had already all the data. We had already all the [INAUDIBLE] And we ran successive optimization in order to decide whether to make a business decision. Is it 25 or 20 or 15? This happens a lot. When this is used in reality, companies are running successive optimization. People introduce all kinds of constraints, because you can now introduce a combination of this. What happens if we do 25 carriers, but we give it 30% business to minority carriers. Then we want 50% to be incumbent carriers. Oh, this doesn't look too good. Let's do-- Let's try something else. So you try many, many things. The big plus of using these is that, instead of what we call, discussions over beer, everybody take an opinion. Now it's good to have 30%. It's good to have 40%. It's good to have so many carriers. It's good to have that many carriers to get this kind of business. You can do it mathematically. And this is the big benefit of using this approach. So let's stop here, and go do some problems. And I'll see you again in the next segment.

## Economies of Scope and Combinatorial Auctions - Part I
As I mentioned in the introduction to this lesson, one of the challenges in procurement optimization is to take advantage of economies of scope. And this can be done with what's called combinatorial auction or combinatorial procurement, and this is the subject of this particular segment. So let's talk about economies of scope first. In many cases, the bid for one item depends on whether the supplier knows that they will get other items. They may have joint cost in the production of certain things, so it's not that this supplier will give us lower costs if we get more of the certain items. This is simply based on economies of scope, and suppliers, as we saw before, can give us some volume discount. This is not volume discount. This is getting discount or getting low price on both items if the supplier gets to supply both. It can be 2, 3, or 100 items, but they are related somehow, and the cost to produce them are related. So the supplier may get, for example, to sell two types of cereal that are made together or a navigation system and cruise control that can be made in one system. And in that case, the supplier will give us a better price because its costs are lower. So these are not false economics. This is not pressing the supplier or anything like this. This is the supplier costs are lower because the production cost depend on doing these two items together. It is particularly evident in trucking transportation when you think about truckloads. Truckloads is taking full loads from origin to destination. Here the transportation product is lane, origin destination. This is what we've talked about throughout this lecture. So the cost are of two types. There's direct cost and connection cost for the truckers, for the transportation carrier. The direct costs are the costs that are tied to the distance going from A to B. Its the drivers' salaries, it's the gas, it's the tire wear, all the cost that are directly tied to the movement. Connection costs are different. The connection costs are the cost of what happens at the destination. For example, does the driver have to wait there for three days until he get the next load? Does the truck have to move empty out of there, which costs money and nobody pays? So these are some of the connection costs. The connection costs create lane cost dependency or economies of scope. Because if I just bid on A to B not knowing what's going to happen in B, is different than if I get an A to B knowing that you also give me B to A or B to C. Because now I know the truck doesn't have to wait there, I don't have to go empty, and I can give you a better price because it costs the trucker or less, so the trucker can give a better price. So the problem is that the standard auction process or the standard procurement process for transportation is that the shippers, the auctioneers, evaluate each lane bid by itself, which means the carrier are bidding on hundreds or thousands or tens of thousands of lane. The shipper, which is the auctioneer, may look at all the bids from Boston to Detroit and choose the minimum subject to some constraints or the combination of the best service and best price. But to simplify this, let's not talk only about price. So basically the shipper ranks all the bids on a particular lane and chooses the best one or the least cost one. It doesn't work for the carriers because the carriers are trying to build a network. They need to get the equipment back home. They need to keep moving. So there's a disconnect here that we'll explain further. So the current practice in transportation, in most cases, it starts with information exchange. The shippers gives aggregated volume estimate by lane, by origin, region, system, based on last year and some forecast of what will happen last year and ask the carrier to bid on this. The carrier submit lane rate, which sometimes a per mile rate or per move between A to B, a charge that much or between A to B, a charge so much per mile, same idea. And then what happened? There's assign mechanism. It's what I mentioned before, lane-by-lane analysis. For each lane, the low bids win. It's basically done through a spreadsheet. So let's continue with an example that we use throughout this lesson. So this is the simple network with four lanes, A to B. We call A to B, B to C, C to A, and C to B, and C to A. And these are the bids of the carriers. That's actually the same table that we had before. And you look at this and it's clear that the carrier 1 will meet A to B, C to A, and C to B, and carrier 2 will win B to C. So this will be the winning bids, and if we look back on who is winning what, carrier 1 is winning A to B, B to C, and C to A. Carrier 2 winning B to C. That's a problem because there are two very good trips here. One trip is if one carrier can win A to B, B to C, and C to A, it can get the equipment back to maintenance, it can get the driver back home, or if a carrier win, B to C and C to A. In this situation, none of the carriers won this good tour, this good type of business. That's the disconnect between the carrier and the shipper here. To solve this, what we use is what's called combinatorial bid. And with combinatorial bid, the following takes place. We let each carrier bid not only on each lane separately, but on combinations. So in this particular network, possible package includes the following. The first one is bids on each lane separately. Package number 1 is A to B. Package number 2 is B to C. We call it the package just to keep the nomenclature. But we also let carriers bid on the combination of lanes. So carrier can say, I can give you a good price if you give me A to B and B to C and even better price if you give me A to B, B to C, and C to A. I can give you a good price B to C. So now we get lots of bids for all these combinations. Now, the problem is the complexity. The complexity is that there's a large number of bids. Each carrier, let's say we have several 100 lanes or 7,000 lanes. Instead of submitting just number of bids similar to the number of lanes or smaller than the number of lanes, it's submit that plus many of the combinations. So we can have million bids submitted by each carrier. Then we have also overlapping bid. What does it mean overlapping bid? Let me give you an example. Let's say we have a lane going from A to B. So one carrier bids A to B, the same carrier bids A, let's say C to A to B. Another carrier bids going to A going to B going to somewhere else coming back. That's just one carrier. There's another carrier submit I'm going from this point to here and here and there and then coming back. So which carrier gets what? There are so many overlapping bids, it gets really, really difficult. And the large number, of course, doesn't simplify anything. So how do we deal with it? Turns out there are certain mathematical structures that are very good for dealing with this. So let's arrange, let's show how it is done in a spreadsheet. In actuality, it's not done in spreadsheet. It's done in special software, but for this particular example, it can be done with a spreadsheet. So let's arrange all the bids in a table. How do we arrange it? So this is the package number here. These are the lane. And a 1 here says that this carrier is bidding on this lane. So package 1 includes a bid on A to B, and the price is $500. Package 5 include a bid on A to B and B to C, and the price is $975. You see the $975 is less than bidding separately for A to B and B to C because if carrier 1 is bidding separately for A to B and B to C, he does not know if he'll get both of them. But if he bids on a combination, he can provide a better price because he knows that he'll get both of them. By the same token, you see, bid number 8 includes B to C and C to B. This is the round robin, B to C and C to B. And bid number 9 is A to B, B to C, and C to A. This is a tour that goes back to the origin. And unlike bidding these three separately, which cost $1,500, the carrier, in this example, is bidding $1,325, so they're bidding less. Same thing. Carrier 2 is also, there's a 1. If there's a bid, the price is here at the bottom and we have the same number of bids. Add to this now the number of loads assigned to a particular package. So this is the variable that we have, the number of loads assigned to a particular package, and this is the cost data on the lanes. So what we have here is, if this 1, this means that there's a bid here. This is the number of loads. It's coming through here, and this is 10 times $500 will be the $5,000 here. So we have here the bid of this particular. So if carrier 1 gets package 1, they'll get 10 loads on this number of loads. If it will be 10 at a cost of $500 each, their bid is $5,000. So let's see how each one of these works. So just repeating what we said. So there's a 1 in the table, in the cell, in this case in package 5. So if A to B is included in package 5, there's a 1 here and 0 otherwise or nothing. The cost of package 5 by carrier 1 is $975. In addition, the number of loads assigned to carrier 1, package 5 is here. This is the variable that will change as part of the permutation, but we start with less then number of 10 as a starting condition. This is the loads that carrier 1 carries from A to B, and this is the total cost of assigning 10 loads to package 1 of carrier 1. Here we have actually the objective function. This is total cost. It's the sum of all the cost along here, along the bottom row. And of course, this is the sum of the loads. We have to have this column equal to this column. So we have to have at least 10. The constraint here is least 10 on every one of these lanes, just like before. So now we get to the optimization itself. So in the optimization, we are trying, this is the objective function. So this is the C11 times C5. So this is C5 times C11. It's simply the number of loads that carrier 1 is getting under package 1. This is the number of loads that carrier 1 is getting under package 7. This is the cost, the amount of money that carrier 1 is getting under package 1 if package 1 is assigned to it, and this is the sum which is the total cost which we are trying to minimize. And this, of course, again, is the constraint that having 10, we want to have 10 in each row. Now, we get to the optimization. So we optimize-- U19 is exactly here. And we want to change the C11 to T11 are here. Everything here is integer, and you see here that we contend here that U15, U18, which is this, is equal to this. So now we optimize this. You see this is just what I said. And these numbers are these numbers here are the decision variables, and we impose the constraint that we have 10 in each row. So now we look at a solution. We optimize it. We solve this, minimize this. And this is not easy to do by inspection. You can do it, but it's not as easy. You see that this is the solution. We see that carrier 1, the round robin here, was carrying A to B, B to C, and C to A. A to B, B to C, C to A. In carrier 2 and also carrier 1 was getting this one. So carrier 1 was getting everything. But most importantly it got its round robin that it really wanted. Now, this is the solution. This is what carrier 1 is getting.

## Economies of Scope and Combinatorial Auctions - Part II
We can have conditions on the combinatorial bid. For example, we want to use minimum two carriers and each carrier should get at least 10. We don't know where, but must get at least 10 throughout the system. What we add here is this variable here. This is the sum. 90 is the sum of all. This is the sum of the loads that carrier one is getting. This 90 is the sum of the loads that carrier two is getting. So this is the sum of C11 to K11. You see C11 is here, to K11, which is here. And this is the sum of L11 to T11 from here to here. So each one of them is the sum of all the loads that the carrier is getting. And we can put it to any number, want to have some minimum number, so whatever. In this case I think we put it to 10. So we make sure that each of the sum is greater than or equal to 10. So this is simply an additional constraint. You see that K12, which is this, and T12, which is this here, are greater then 10. All the other conditions are the same. So this is what we just said. So we go ahead and optimizing it, and we get a different solution in this case. You see that still carrier one is getting its package that it wants, but carrier two is also getting some reasonably good packaging. For example, it gets B to C and C to B, what's called a continuous move. And the assignment is different. You see here, by the way, that the solution here is higher. We had 18,000 before. It's 18,125 because we just impose the constraint that each carrier has to get at least 10. And you see how the numbers here are distributed across the various packages. So the solution looks now something like this. Carrier one gets five on C to B and gets its package. Carrier two gets C to A and A to B, which is a continuous move, and also one of the good packages. So with this, let's explain the process. This is a more complex process than just regular auction or regular procurement. So you'll need to explain to the supplier. In many cases, companies that we dealt with are having a supplier conference, more than one sometimes, and explaining how the process works. And especially for small suppliers, you need to help them. In fact you may want to even identify the packages in their request for bids that you are submitting because large carriers will have operation research analysts who can find out through the data what are good bids and what good packages. Small carriers you may want to identify when you talk about transportation carriers. It does require a specialized software for the optimization. The problem structure is called set covering. And it can be solved for very large problems. But you need specialized software. This is something for a good-sized problem. It is something that is solved iteratively. It is not solved, of course, by a spreadsheet. And it takes a while to get to a good solution. You test various condition with various optimization runs. Just like we said before, you can test all kinds of conditions, add to the combinatorial nature of the problem anything that you want. You can add a level of service. You can add my brother-in-law has to get at least a million dollars, anything that you want. Or we can deal with only so many carriers or at least that many carriers or a constraint that the order sees from every facility, we want to have at least two carriers, one primary and one secondary. All kinds of conditions take place. And these conditions are imposed after the bidding data is in. So you first get the data. Then you impose all those conditions and run the optimization. Now as we said before, one of the issues that's not easily determined-- and determined as we said through negotiations. Remember when we talk about the level of service, we said that you had to determine how much level of service is worth to you. Turns out that in many cases it's not easy to determine. And by successive runs, you run with different types of level of service, different values. And people can say OK, this is what it means when the level of service is $10 per 1%. This is what it mean when it's $5 or $15 or whatever. And they start seeing the implication of different values on the level of service. By way of summary, let's say the following. A procurement auction is always an optimization process. You always try to find the best, the minimum, the lowest, the best service, what have you. The choice of the winner of course can be based on various criteria and can be subject to many conditions. Each one of these criteria and conditions can be modeled as a constraint. And you can have a combination of them. You don't need to test them one at a time. You may want to test what happens when I do a conspiratorial auction or when I introduce a level of service, take into account level of service, and also give a million dollars to my brother-in-law and also make sure that 30% of the carriers are women-owned businesses or whatever. So these are actual conditions that people are using in practice. And they usually use a combination of them. In all cases the solution will never be as good as running it with no conditions at all. When you introduce a constraint, the solution would be more expensive. But it means that it is worth for you. But you also know how much it is worth for you. By modeling it this way you know, for example, that having 25% minority carriers-- if you run the solution without any condition and then you run with 25% minority carriers, the difference in the value, the extra money that you have to pay for having 25% minority carriers is the extra that you pay for meeting this condition. So now you know how much this condition costs you. Now you know how much it may cost you to deal with high level of service carriers as opposed to any carrier. So all these introduce light and introduce more understanding into the process. You can model the level of service tradeoff explicitly. Do you want to have high cost, high service carrier? Do you want to have low cost, low service carrier? And finally combinatorial auctions that we did in the last segment can account for bidders' economics of scope. So you can take into account the actual economics of the supplier. Not only your economics are taken into account by the optimization, but you take into account the economics of the supplier who can give you better prices if they can be guaranteed that they are getting a combination of items that they're bidding on. So let's stop here. Thank you very much.
