# week07 lesson1 procurement strategy

(SC2x video lecture transcript)

## Procurement and Sourcing
Hi, everybody. In this lesson, we will learn several aspects of procurement. Companies buy many things and not all of them should be treated the same way. So the first basic issue is how to segment the procurement and how to treat each segment. This can be based on supply relationship, the use of digital technology, inventory policy. All of these things should be aligned with the appropriate type of procurement. We will also spend some time on the sourcing process itself, what is included, and the many detail what you should pay attention to. We will mention some element of sourcing capital goods as well, because they involve long-term decision. And we also explain many of the considerations involved in outsourcing. Many of the things a company buys involves price volatility, not only oil and other energy products but many other commodities and services. We will learn how to deal with such volatility through financial hedging, operational hedging, and even surcharges. Finally, we will touch on procurement social responsibility. The carbon footprint of many companies is mainly in their supply chain and their suppliers Furthermore, this is where many social responsibility issues raise their ugly heads. We will discuss methods used by companies to protect themselves and develop responsible suppliers. The first segment, however, is about procurement and the importance of procurement. So in terms of outline, it includes all the things we talked about. Why worry about procurement? This is the first segment, and then we talk about the rest. Let's consider first the famous Ford River Rouge plant in the early last century. Ford made car [INAUDIBLE], but it owns all the means of production. It was totally vertically integrated. So Ford owned the mines that brought the iron ore to make the steel. Ford owned the forest from which it was taking, getting the wood to make the car. There are a lot of wood content in car. So it owns also the means of transportation. It owns the railroad that brought the stuff into the plant. It owned the plant. It owned the distribution channel. It was totally vertically integrated. So as stuff was coming into the plant, the famous Model T cars were coming out of the plant. You could get them in any color you wanted as long as it was black. So over time, following the River Rouge Plant as it said in the early 19th century, the importance of purchasing grew. The reason is, if you look at the distribution of types of money in a corporation and you look at how much is bought, how much has been bought, and how much was spent internally, you could see that over time the amount spent on material and services grew, and the amount spent on wages, salaries and overhead inside the corporation actually went down. You can think about one of the reasons for this is that there's a lot of leverage in procurement. So strategic sourcing can have a real impact on the financial performance and shareholder value of a company. Let me give you an example. So let's look at the revenue, the income statement of a company. So there's revenue. In this case, it's a million dollars. They spend on material and services that they buy from the outside 390 million, labor and overhead, which is spent internally as 275. There's a gross margin. There are fixed operating expense. So the net income pretax is $135 million. Now let's assume that you can have a 5% improvement in material and services. If you look at the all the calculation done, this brings you a 14% improvement in net income. So this is a big leverage here. And if you can produce the material and services procured by 10%, then you'll get almost 30% improvement in the net income. If you can reduce it by 15%, you'll get almost 50% improvement in net income. This is the reason that Fortune, in a famous article in 1995, wrote, when the goal is boosting profit by dramatically lowering cost, a business should look first at what it buys. Now one should also realize when in procurement that the price that the supplier is bidding on is not everything. There are lots of other elements in procurement, for example, delivery conditions, where there are delays in delivery, defects, what's the quality of the item supplied? Is are there any handling cost? Are there any inspection cost? Is there training required? What kind of service is the bidder providing? Are there any CSR risks? Is the bidder somebody that we don't know and likely to have some problem with, say, child labor that will reflect bad on us. Is to be bidder financially stable? We don't want somebody to get out of business midway through the contract. All these actually can be converted to cost and then increase the cost. So it's not only the price. You have to look at other elements of the deal. So let's stop here. Now we understand what procurement is about and go to the next section.

## Mapping the Buy - Part I
In this segment, we will talk about mapping the buy. What do we mean by mapping the buy? What we mean is dividing the buy, dividing the item that we're buying, into certain categories. And then we treat these categories differently. So let's go first through several examples of what it is that we are buying. So let's talk about an automotive company, and assume that they buy several things. So for example, they buy wipers. There are many suppliers of wipers, and they don't spend too much money on wipers. They also buy tires for each car. And four tires, five tires actually per car, costs money. So they spend a lot of money on tires. There are a lot of suppliers of tires, but dealer's spending a lot of money on it. They also buy electronic components and chips. And here it's different. There are not too many suppliers, and chips may be specialty made, specially made for automotive applications. They may also buy navigation system. And this is again different because navigation systems are something that the customers, the driver sees as part of feel of the car. So it's part of the competitive advantage of the car company. So it's a very important buy. By and large, when we look at each segment, we look at how many we buy, how much does it cost, how unique is the part. Is it something that can be easily replaced? And how many suppliers are there who can provide this part? Let's look at another example of fast food in this case. Let's look at somebody like McDonald's. They buy a few apples for those children who want a healthy Happy Meal. They also buy a lot of potato because everybody wants French fries. They also buy self-service machines that people can order and buy their own food. These are specialty made, and there are not too many suppliers. And they also buy fish from actually a single supplier in Massachusetts. The fish that goes into fish filet is a very important product because it's part of the taste and the texture of the product. So it's part of what the customer actually experiences when they buy a fish filet burger. Again, we look at how much we buy, how many we buy. So we buy few apples but a lot of potatoes. How much does each one of them cost? How unique is the part? Is there something special about a supplier of apples or potato? Well, not really. But a supplier of fish filet, of course, is very important and very unique. And how many suppliers are there? Can you just go in the marketplace and find just any supplier? Finally, let's talk about buying computers. So you can think about part of the computer is the packaging. It's not a very complicated buy. There are many suppliers, and it can easily replaced it. You can buy keyboards. You spend more money on keyboard than you spend on packaging, and you buy a lot of keyboard. There's one for every computer. But there are many suppliers of keyboards. A computer company may also buy robotic manufacturing system. These are very complex system. There are not too many suppliers, and they're specialty made for each company. And they also buy chips. And these chips are very important because, like we mentioned before, these impact the customer experience. The chip determines how fast the computer is, how much stuff it can hold in memory, lots of other things. So again, these are important buys. So we look in each one of the segments in order to classify the buy, we look at how many of each item we buy, how much does it cost, how unique is the party, and how many suppliers. So given these examples, we can map the buy, map the procurement of all items on two dimensions. The first one is the risk slash impact, and it goes from low to high. And the other axis is the annual spend, how much we spend in total on an item. When we think about simple market, that's low risk and low impact, there are many suppliers, easily exchangeable, a lot of capacity in the marketplace. The specifications are standard. Nothing is unique. And it's easy to substitute. When we talk about complex market, we talk about few suppliers. There's not much capacity in the marketplace. The specifications are very unique to our needs, and there are no easy substitutes. Now, when you have lots of things to buy, you may want to classify them and see where they fit and treat them accordingly. So let's now name some of these quadrants. So we usually refer to them as tactical, leverage, critical, and strategic. In the tactical quadrant, we put common items. These are items that we don't spend too much money on, and actually they're not that important. The risk is not high. There are always many suppliers. Leverage is where there are many suppliers. It's not a complex buy, but we spend a lot of money there. So we have to pay attention to this because there are a lot of opportunity to save money. The critical buy is where there are potential problems, because it's a complex market, there are not too many substitutes, we don't spend a lot of money on it, so we don't have a lot of leverage with the supplier. The strategic buy are things that give us competitive edge. We spend a lot of money. It's a high impact, high risk, but these are the things that the customer may see and they distinguish our product from others.

## Mapping the Buy - Part II
So the first one is the tactical buy. Here there are many transactions, but the value is low. So transaction costs are high relative to the value of the item. So what's the main strategy? We want to lower the number of transactions. So we want somehow to consolidate transactions. So there are many ways of doing it. One can use a procurement card that people in the company buy, but you pay only once a month to the-- it's like a credit card, basically. One can use supplier-managed inventory or consignment inventory or vendor-managed inventory. It goes by different names. The idea here is that assume that the retailer simply, quote unquote, "rents" shelf space to the supplier, and the supplier is responsible for filling the space and the display and making sure there are enough items there all the time. Can also think about system contracting. You want to put an entire category of items or a whole system, rather than components. So you lower the number of transactions. And also you want to make sure that you use electronic data interchange or other digital means to communicate with the suppliers, because otherwise the fixed costs of every transaction are very high. Let's now look at the leverage buy. This is where you have generic items, but there is high volume. This is where you run auctions. Typically, it's where much of the dollars are spent. And the type of auction that you want to do here is sealed-bid first-price auction. This is the standard procurement auction. It's very important to minimize total end cost, the total cost of what you buy. So you have to be ready to switch supplier based on total landed costs. You have to measure total landed costs, which includes the transportation and all the other things that go into the cost, not just the cost of the item. And you have to be ready to switch supplier based on the total landed cost. You want to continuously analyze the supply base and be aware of the supplier, same idea. You don't want long-term contracts. You want to have the contract relatively short and flexible so you can get out of them when an opportunity presents itself. Then you want to leverage volume. How do you leverage volume? You may want to consider a purchase across divisions. These are, in many cases, generic items. So many divisions in your company are buying them. You want all the divisions to buy them together. You even want to add some volume to the suppliers so they'll give you even a better price. And you don't want only to concentrate the purchase or consolidate the purchase across divisions. You may want even to organize a consortium of several non-competing companies and create what's called horizontal collaboration, that several companies may buy as one. There are many examples of this in the marketplace. In any case, the strategy should always assure supply continuity. So you don't want to be in a position that the supplier can leave you. So this moderates how flexible and short-term you want to be. Let's talk now about the critical buy. The volumes are small, and there is a bottleneck. This may include some custom-designed tools, capital equipment, specialty support services, all kind of special items. Here the strategy would be to decrease product variety. You don't want the product to be unique and special. So you want to reduce the number of stock keeping units. And you want to standardize the items and the services as much as possible. You also want to develop a method to manage assets over their lifetime. This in many cases happens with capital expenditure, when you buy some big equipment and you have to manage it over a lifetime rather than keep buying new things. You always also want to qualify use product. You may want to keep using product for a long time. You may want to buy product from another division or another manufacturer. You want the ability to remanufacture. You don't want to go into the marketplace too often. To ensure availability, here you do want long-term contacts. And you do want high level of safety stock, in case something happens. It's not a big problem to have high level of safety stock here, because the items that-- you don't spend a lot of money on these. It's low spend. And so the inventory carrying costs are not going to be too high. You always have to look for alternatives. Always keep looking for alternatives. Look for substitute items, and look for alternative suppliers. Also, in these cases, it's not clear what the cost is, and you may want to conduct a so-called engineering should-cost analysis. You let your engineers model the drivers of the cost. And to use internal comparisons, it's basically an engineering analysis of what goes into the program and how much should it cost, so you are not totally held hostage to the supplier. Finally, let's look at the strategic buy. Here are items or services that give you competitive advantage. Here is where you want to establish partnerships. You don't want to establish partnerships with your screw supplier or something like this. You want to establish partnership only in cases of strategic suppliers that give you competitive advantage. This is where you are looking for real partnerships, which should not be conducted for every sourcing. You want the partnership agreement to be at all levels. So not only your procurement people are talking to their salespeople, but your engineers are talking to their engineers, your CEO is talking to their CEO, and so forth and so on. You definitely want long-term contracts, in many cases with gain sharing and revenue sharing, because the supplier may come up with some innovative product that will help you sell more cars, more product, what have you, and you may want to have the supplier have a stake in the sales performance. So you do some gain sharing or revenue sharing agreement in this case. You can also get to join product development when both of you are developing new products together. You operate in all kinds of innovation initiatives. And in this case, there's even co-investment in many cases. You may buy part of the supplier. The supplier may invest in you. You also should think about possible vertical integration, in some sense, buying the supplier. You want it for risk reduction, because now you have the technology. You want it for sustainability, because now you control to make sure that you are not surprised by some practices of the supplier. And you can get hold of the innovation that the supplier is known for. Now, a word of caution. When you buy a supplier, its customers will come with it. And some of their customers may be your competitors, and they may disappear. So you have to think about it. An example of a strategic relationship is the relationship between AT&T and Apple when Apple just came up with the iPhone. For quite a long time, AT&T was the only carrier that carried the iPhone. And Apple got a percentage of the call revenue while AT&T was the only network that was selling the iPhone with the wireless service. So AT&T was unique. They were able to sell a lot of iPhones and sign a lot more customers. But in return, Apple was sharing in the gains and sharing with the revenue from the wireless minutes that AT&T was selling. So let's stop here, and we will go to the next segment.

## Value and Risk Mapping, E-procurement
Let's continue with the discussion of the value and risk mapping, and some strategy, including e-procurement to this discussion. Recall the map of risk and impact on the vertical axis versus annual spend on the horizontal axis. So what is the tactic that we have to use to summarize? On the tactical area, we have to streamline that acquisition process. We have to reduce the activity, minimize the number of transaction, and we said use vendor managed inventory. Recall that we did that. On the leverage area, we want to maximize the leverage. We want to standardize everything. We want to consolidate the volume. We reduce transaction cost. Of course, global sourcing and actively look for new suppliers all the time. On the critical quadrant, we want to reduce risk. We want to eliminate as much as possible. We want to substitute something and simplify that buy. On the strategic side, we want to create an alliance. This is where we want to create partnership with the supplier. We want to share cost reduction, and we are not going to do too much active sourcing. We're not going to go and test the market all the time because we want the supplier to feel comfortable, and it's not part of the partnership if we keep looking for new suppliers all the time. And if it's a small supplier, we want to help develop this supplier and make them even better than they are. So let's look at the strategies, how to get out of the critical bites. The critical quadrant, that's the problematic one. So one way to do it is to find more suppliers or change engineering specification to lower the complexity. Try to move from the critical buy closer and into the tactical buy, by having simpler specification and something that's not that complex. We also can move to the buy. Again, lowering the complexity, but consolidating the buy. Even partner with others to increase the volume, and even giving the supplier more business even though it's not their main business, but making sure that we are a bigger customer of that supplier. Finally, we may want to go the other direction, not to make it tactical, but to make it strategic. To increase the value of that we buy from this supplier and partner with it, and make it a strategic partner. Let's now talk about electronic markets. Before we talk about how to deal with procurement in electronic markets, let's explain what they are. So there are public markets. Usually think about eBay or Amazon. These are public markets. In procurement, public markets are used in many cases for MRO, for maintenance repair operation stuff that doesn't go into the product because there we can partner with other companies. It's not something that's in the heart of the product. These type of markets have many sellers and many buyers. They have wide reach and very high transaction efficiency. Another type of market is industry sponsored market, a consortium. And this is usually happen within a vertical. So within, for example, the automotive industry, Covisint is a company that moves engineering specification and buying of parts between the major auto company and hundreds of suppliers. So there may be a few buyers and many, many sellers. And there's volume aggregation, and transportation become efficient in this case because you can combine the buys from several suppliers going into one or more buyers. It also exists in the retail space. For example, Worldwide Retail Exchange, WWRE is something like this in the retail space, and they exist in almost every industry. Finally, there are private electronic markets. GE is famous for holding one. They're run by one company, and there are many sellers, many bidders who participate in the marketplace. It's very secure because there's only one buyer, and they don't have to share anything with other buyers. So the sellers can have access to the design and engineering. And here you have many collaborative system to manage the quality. So the e-market itself may help suppliers manage the quality. But these are the main type of electronic markets that are there. How do we use electronic markets in procurement? So, for the tactical buy, you basically have an online catalog. The suppliers put in catalog. The buyer get in using a search engine or going directly to a specific supplier and buy certain things online. The leverage is when you conduct reverse auction. And you want to combine volume and have a large buy, so to speak, large spend. So you have leverage with the suppliers. But here is where you conduct reverse auction, what we talk about. This will be the first-price closed-bid type of auction. In the critical, that's where you have sometimes extra nets. This is where you use industry portals because usually the suppliers are very specific to the industry, and you want-- the electronic market can handle secure transactions, so you want to use this type of industry portal in this case. What you don't want to do is use any electronic buying in strategic cases, because here communication and continued communication with the suppliers are very important. Note however that in all cases, you want electronic execution. Doesn't matter, even with a strategic partner you want to use electronic invoicing. You want to use advanced shipping notice, electronic receipt, electronic invoice and payment. You always don't want to spend time shuffling paper around. So this is how you apply electronic procurement to the various type of buy. Let's stop here, and we will soon go to the next segment.

## The Sourcing Process
Let's now discuss the process of sourcing itself. How do we go about sourcing? And sourcing process, could think about it as having several parts. Could think about first starting with internal assessment, assessing the market, collecting supplier information, deciding on the sourcing strategy, deciding on the bidding process, negotiate then select the winner, and implement the contract. After this, you can think about a continuous process during the life of the contracts of measuring, reporting, capturing the lesson, ensuring compliance, and getting ready for the next year or the next contract time, the next time you're going to run a sourcing process. So let's talk about each one of those step in detail. So what is included in internal assessment? Here, you want to confirm the cutaway definition. You want to talk to the engineers, find out what exactly people are looking for. You want to evaluate the baseline information. What's available in the marketplace? How much is it cost last time? You want to identify the company customer. Who is it that you are buying to? Who are the key constituents here? Who you are buying for and who are the decision maker? And you want to understand the current purchasing process, especially if you are going to change it. The next step is market assessment. You want to analyze the dynamics of the market and trends, or pricing going up, going down. Maybe you should delay it by two, three months, and have a better-- if the price is going down, better pricing. You want to identify all the suppliers and find out what competitors are doing. Maybe somebody has a good idea, here. You want to collect supply information. You want to survey the supplier. You want to tell them what the evaluation -- You first have to decide what the evaluation criteria are. As we mentioned in the introduction to this lesson, there can be many criteria beyond price, and you want to verify the spend analysis. How much are you expected to spend, what's going to cost, how much would be spent with this supplier in general? In the sourcing strategy, you develop the specification for what you're going to buy. You identify the sourcing levers. Is the supplier already doing business with you? Some suppliers. Are some suppliers in dire need for more business? Are some suppliers don't need business at all, and you would be expecting a high prices? Then you want to develop end state summary, what it would look like after everything's said than done. You also want to determine what I call potential mega-supplier approach. There are now some very large suppliers in many industries. And with those suppliers, the process is different, because if you're a manufacturing company, you may both buy and sell with this supplier. And there may be a relationship at the top level that you should be aware of. Next you decided on the bidding process. You develop a request for proposal and disseminate the evaluation criteria. You decide on the bidding format, and as we'll see later, we mentioned before there are several auction types and several bidding strategy which we talk about later. Develop the messaging for the supplier, actually developing the request for proposal. Then you conduct the bid, and you end up with a shortlist of suppliers. Usually not one. Because then you want to negotiate with the shortlist. They may have services and idea that you didn't think about originally. So you want to elicit it from the few suppliers who you deem by now to be the best. You want to select the supplier and get a contract. Then you implement. You developed implementation plan and communication plan, so everybody in your company and their company knows what's going on. You develop a measurement and an audit plan. You want to make sure that you monitor the performance of this contract and this supplier. You also want to capture intellectual capital. If this supplier is doing something interesting, you want to make sure that you understand it, and if need be, you can perform some of it by these capabilities. At the end, of course, there's a feedback loop which we talked about before. During the life of your contract, you measure and create reports for the performance of the supplier, you captured the lessons from this performance, and of course you always ensure compliance. All this makes sure that next year, or the next contract period, you are ready and you're even in better shape than you came in into this contract negotiations. How many ways to evaluate suppliers? One standard way of evaluation is to create what's called cobweb diagram, with several types of metrics. So here, we're talking about quality, cost competitiveness, the administration of the supplier, their technology, their assistance, how are they on the sustainability measure, how are they on the innovation measure, are they responsive to your need? Do they improve the logistics, the delivery, the level of service? And then you want to have suppliers measure along this dimension. This is the red dashed line here is one supplier. You can have another supplier, and this gives you some type of comparison between suppliers. There are various ways of doing exactly this. So the key sourcing levers are the following-- leverage the buying power, we talk about consolidating the buy. You want to rationalize product and service specification. Maybe you don't need a very complex product or service. This would mean that there would be more suppliers who can provide it, and it will be simple to get. If somebody is actually a strategic partner, you want to get into a joint process improvement. Actually, you may want to do it with a lot of suppliers, especially if they do something interesting. You want to think about how the relationship can be a structure to the benefit of both sides. In many cases, you find out that you have to change some processes in order to get the process to work better. You want to make sure the information is transparent throughout your organization to supplier organization, so a lot of people you can comment on what's going on, and make sure the process keeps going. And global sourcing, of course. You always want to make sure that you are aware of all suppliers around the world. Finally, you should think about being a good customer. Very few people conduct supplier survey to find out, how are they easy to do business with? Once you get the reputation of being difficult to do business with, suppliers will take it into account in their bid. You also don't want to leave the contract with the lawyer. Future users must be involved. So it's not only your lawyers, it's the people in your company who will be using the product or service. Even in tight contracts when you think you thought about everything, a lot is left out. And a lot relies on the people and understanding. So you don't want the lawyers on both sides to understand what was going on, you want the people who are involved, who have to supply the product or service, and to use the product or service, to be involved in the contract, because they'll remember what was the meaning, even though it's not-- or what was the intent, even though it may not be in a contract. Remember that if a contract is done by procurement and legal and then thrown over to the people who have to execute this, this is the only record of both suppliers and customer needs. And may not reflect needs, especially when the needs are changing over time. So you want the contract to reflect the intent, and this can be only if the people who supply it and use it are involved. By and large, smaller companies are better, because they rely more on suppliers, so they don't try to be overly harsh on the suppliers. And they're not shy about asking help for ideas, for innovation. Finally, big companies can help suppliers when times are tough. And this is usually remembered. For example, during 2008, during the financial crisis, Proctor & Gamble as what as Intel and others started giving critical suppliers long-term contracts. Some companies even use their own credit to help supplier obtain financing. Remember, that one of the main difficulties during 2008 was for company to obtain credit. Credit just dried up. So companies like Proctor & Gamble, Intel, some of the big companies could use their credit to help supply get financing. Some companies even invested in the supplier, in order to make sure that they'll still be standing when the tough times are over. Let's stop here, and go to the next segment.

## Value-Based Sourcing
In the following segment, we talk about value-based sourcing, how to think about buy beyond price. And what we're talking about here is the value beyond the purchase price for that item. The question is, what other assets and capabilities the supply can offer in addition to the product and service procure? So let's not base it only on the price and even on the other item related to the product. But maybe there are other things that the supplier can bring. So let's have some questions. Is this supply better with existing activities? For example, once we get good relation with supply, maybe they can manage our inventory. Maybe they can manage our after sales support. Maybe they can help us with product development. Can the supply somehow decrease our risk? Can to supply reduce bottoming? Can the supply purchase critical part better than others? Is the supply better at disruption response? Does the supplier better in managing exchange rates? And many other things the supplier can do that's better than us, then we can learn from them. Can the supplier provide some other competitive advantage, some new products variant, something else that we didn't think about? Can the supplier have expanded portfolio? Can the supplier once we work with them and they understand our customer needs, maybe they can offer something else that we can add to our portfolio and make our customer even happier? So think about the supply relationship in terms of transduction focus versus collaboration focus. In collaboration focus, you think about the high-value product, high-risk product, and complex supply market. It's basically, the upper right-hand side of the value map. In the transaction focus, you talk about low-value product, low-risk product, and simply supply market, the bottom left corner of this map. And if you think about communication, contract lengths, and supplier involvement, clearly, in the collaboration focus but, there's more communication, contracts are longer, and suppliers are more involved with us. This is exactly the opposite with low-value product. You don't want to be partner with low-value product suppliers. So you don't communicate much with them. You do short contract length because you can replace them. And you're not getting involved with the supply. Let's talk about some of the characteristics of a traditional sourcing versus value-based sourcing. So in traditional sourcing, you focus on price. Let's say, we all know that. In value-based sourcing, you focus on value. So it's not how much it costs but how much you get to versus how much it cost. So in traditional sourcing, you focus on the total cost of ownership versus focusing on the total contribution, which is a similar concept actually. Tradition sourcing is very process driven venomous sourcing is driven by the strategy. You don't tie up to the process itself, but you may think about the corporate strategy and where you're going and where the supplier may help you to go. In traditional sourcing, you use benchmarking, and you want to be just as good as the next guy. In value-based sourcing, you want to be better than other people. So you seek differentiation. You don't use benchmarking. If you use benchmarking, it's just in order to make sure that you're better than others not that you can be as good as others. In traditional sourcing, the procurement professional is involved in the definition of the specification. In the value-based sourcing, the procurement person is involved in the setting up the strategy. To reflect this, in traditional sourcing the chief procurement officer reports to an executive committee. In value-based sourcing, the chief procurement officer is a member of the executive committee setting up the strategy. In traditional sourcing, we'll talk about procurement skills for the procurement person. In value-based sourcing we'll talk about business skills, much bigger picture. In tradition sourcing, procurement is an independent function. It serves the business. The customers are the business people who need the product or the service. In value-based sourcing, procurement is a line. It's part of the process. It is linked with the business stakeholders. Let's stop here, and we'll go soon to the next segment.

## Handling Volatility
In this segment, we will talk about volatility. It is important to know how to handle volatility because the result of a procurement process between a company and a supplier is usually a contract over time. The supplier is committed to provide some service or some product over time. During this time, prices of some components of the product or service may change substantially. For example, if it's a trucking service, the price of fuel may go up substantially. And the trucking company may not be able to provide the service or they'll go bankrupt. Also the price of fuel may go down substantially. And the trucking company will have a windfall, which we as a customer may want to enjoy part of it. So the question is, how do we do deal with volatility? We will start by having some examples of volatility. The first one is fuel where raw material cost are volatile and likely to remain so. So these are examples of the price of fuel over the last few year. Do you see the price goes up, the price goes down, the price goes up again? The price, in fact, the last few year went down again. It became something like $30 a barrel in 2015, 2016. Of course, fuel is not the only commodity when the price goes up and down. This is an example of copper. And again, you see the price goes up, the price goes down, the price goes up, the price goes down again. It's not low again to reduction of economic activity in China, to the euro crisis, and other issues. This is final example. The price of iron ore goes up. It's now down substantially again, due to some of the same forces. There are two basic methods for dealing with volatility over time. The first one is hedging, either financial or physical. The second one is to separate the fixed and variable costs. And we'll talk about both of these methods. So the first one is financial hedging. The simple way to hedge is if you worry for example, about the price of some commodity going up substantially, you negotiate the long term fixed price contract. And usually you do it in the company's preferred currency. So you also protect yourself against exchange rate volatility, which is one of the things that companies usually hedge against. But the important thing is if you have a fixed price contract, you don't have to worry about anything. That's the contract. Now the supplier takes on the risk. The supplier may have a higher price for this because they take on part of the risk. Another way to deal with price volatility of a factor that goes, or a material that goes into the supplier offering, is to buy or sell a commodity or related commodity for future delivery on a given date at a given price. So for example, let's say you are airline. You are worried about the price of jet fuel. You think ti will go up substantially. So you may want to buy at current prices or some other prices wherever lower hopefully than the price in the future. You want to buy, let's say, diesel fuel. Assuming that if the price of diesel fuel will go up, it will go up together with the price of jet fuel. So you would be able to sell your position in the diesel fuel, and buy the jet fuel that you really need, and it will be at the price that you can afford because you just sold the diesel fuel at the high price. The reason that you do it is because there may be no market in jet fuel for this type of forward contract, but there may be a market in a related commodity. In this case, diesel fuel. Another type of financial hedging, one that is very common, is taking an option. Either a call or a put option. It's the right to buy or sell at a certain price at a certain future date. Let's talk about how this option idea works. So the important thing is that an option to buy or sell is a contract that gives the option holder the right-- and this is very important-- but not the responsibility, not the obligation, to buy or sell something at the given price, regardless of the prevailing market price. Let's give you two examples to see how this works. So example one, let's say the current market price of some key material is $100 a unit. And a company contract for a call option to buy it at $120 a unit. The company's worried that the price will go to $140, $150, $200 a unit. So they want to protect themselves for a certain time, let's say four year, through this option. Now let's see what can happen. If the market price in the future is $140, higher than $120, the company can exercise the option and buy the $120. If the price is $110, the company does not exercise and buys at the market price of $110. You see? It's the best of all worlds. If the price goes high, it exercise, it protects against it. If the price is low, then it can buy the market price. Doesn't have to exercise the option. Let's give an example of a put option. Let's say a commodity producer contract for a put option to sell its product at $25 a unit. It is worried that the price will go down. Now if the price actually fall, let's say the price is $20 a unit, the producer can exercise the option and sell a $25 unit. If on the other hand, the market price goes up, $30 a unit, $40 a unit, he doesn't exercise, and he sells at the highest price. Again in some sense, the best of all worlds. But of course, it's too good to be true. So there is a downside to this option. The first downside is they cost money. Think about it. Somebody is taking the risk of both upside and downside. You have to pay them for this. Second, they expire on a certain date. Very few counter parties. The party takes on the risk, are willing to take it indefinitely. So it goes until a certain date. Also, it is worthless if the price doesn't move beyond the established bound. For example, in the last example, when the producer want to protect itself against the price falling below $25, if the price wouldn't fall, stay $25 or higher, than he just paid for the option and never had to use it. So in that sense, options act like insurance. You pay a premium for a contract that cover the risk. So of course, if the risk is higher, the contract is expensive. So it's more use for its volatile times, but in this case the counterparty-- think about it as the insurance company that offers the product-- it will be more expensive then because the risk is higher. It will also be more expensive if you want to cover small fluctuation, because the risk on the other side is higher. And if you want to cover it for longer time. Again, because the risk is higher because the future is unknown. So it will cost more. You should note for those financially oriented among us, that such contracts are actually assets on the company's balance sheet. Examples, in the end of 2014, Delta had earlier in fact, they hedge price of fuel. They thought the price of fuel would go up, but the price of fuel went down at the end of 2014. And the airline had to take at $1.2 billion write off against the hedge. At the same time, American Airline, which never hedges the price of fuel, enjoy windfall profit when the price went down. In fact, they were able to reduce prices and take some market share from Delta. Let's now talk about physical hedging. It's doing something in other parts of the world, for example. So here you want to create conditions in which the fluctuations are naturally mitigated. A lot of time, use it for currency hedging. Some examples, you build a plant in countries where the labor rates and currency or not expected to appreciate. So you protect yourself against appreciation in some of the inputs. You can manufacture and sell in the same country, thereby protecting yourself against exchange rate fluctuations. A lot of people are going to build plant in China now. Not so much because of low labor rates. Labor rates are going up in China. But because they want to buy and sell within China. Some people actually buy commodity whether they need it or not when the price is low. Some companies are famous for it. When they wait for the price is low, and then they buy a lot more than they need. And they buy less when the price is high. So this is another type of physical hedging. Let's talk about the other type of hedging that has to do we fixed and variable price. The problem here is that we have long term contract. Long term can be a year, two years, five years, whatever. But as before, the price of a key commodity for the supplier is volatile. Example, basic transportation and fuel. Fuel can be 20% to 40% of the price of a truck transportation. Air transportation the same. So a change in the price of fuel, affects very much the price of transportation service. Similarly, if you think about basic corrugated packaging and pulp, which is the main ingredient in corrugated packaging. The price of pulp may fluctuate, and this may mean that the basic corrugated packaging price may change substantially. So the solution here is to tie the long term contracts to the basic functions. So to tie the long term transportation contract to the price of transportation without the price of fuel. And then tie the volatile component to some natural index, to some neutral index that does not depend on the buyer or the seller. Example, fuel for transportation. So let's say the item price can fluctuate substantially. You do a contract, a long term contract for the basic component, and an index based contract for the volatile component of the price. So you have long term contract at specified price for this part of the contract. Let's say $1.20 for transportation per mile for transportation for a to b. And you do an extra payment based on the index. Payment in general, based on the index. And this is the payment based on the index. Depending what the index is, you modify the payment. So how does it work? What are the issues with this? Well, it's not as simple. First of all, it's not clear what's the index price and what's the actual buying price. Think about it. In transportation, the Department of Energy in the United States publishes the average price of diesel fuel throughout the United States every week. And this is usually used as the index for tying for hedging, or tying the volatile component of the price of fuel to the contract price. So the problem is that there's a difference between the average retail and the average wholesale price. What is actually the price that a trucking company is to buy its fuel? Well, that's their business. And you may not know it. Then there's a issue of usage. You want to take into account the productivity. For example, the truck has to drive empty to get to the place of pickup. Who's paying for this empty movement? Who is paying for the percentage of the commodity in the product? It's the how much is there in the product? So how much is the price of fuel in the total price of transportation? And the question is assume efficiency. What's the miles per gallon? How much fuel actually goes in per mile? How much scrap is there for the vendor? And both sides have certain goals. The customer, the buyer, the purchasing department wants long term stability. But it's not the only goal. They also want to drive the supplier towards efficiency. So if they will completely cover for example, the price of fuel for trucking, the supplier will have no incentive to get better engine, to train the drivers, to reduce its mile per gallon, to reduce its percent of empty miles, to be more efficient in general. So the procurement department may not want to cover the entire 100% of the cost of fuel. On the other hand, the supplier needs to cover their cost. Needs to have some profit to be able to stay in business and renew the equipment, and so forth. It also wants long term stability to be able to plan. So both of them negotiate and come up with some idea of what's the fuel surcharge as it's called in the transportation business. And everybody should be familiar with fuel surcharge because at a time when the price of oil was $140 per gallon, if you bought an airline ticket, there was a fuel surcharge added to the price. And this was sanctioned at least in the US, this was sanctioned by the US Department of Transportation. Same idea. So let's stop here.

## Capital Goods
In this segment, we will talk about the purchase of capital goods. Capital goods are large items like plants, buildings, equipment, heavy machinery, transportation equipment, locomotives, trucks, what have you. These are items that involve significant capital expenditure and last for a long time. So we want to distinguish here between direct material, indirect material, and capital goods. Everything that we talked about so far applies to direct material and indirect material. Capital goods require a few other considerations. So beyond standard purchasing, what you need to think about is first of all, emphasis on lifestyle costing. It's not the cost that you buy. It's the cost throughout the lifetime of the item. A lot of things are involved in this, and we'll talk about many of them later. You want to be able to estimate the residual value. At the end of life, you may be able to sell it. You may have to decommission it at a high cost. So you want to understand what it will be like at its end of life. You want to try the product. This is significant expenditure, and you don't want to just buy it without trying it out. You want to conduct some financial analysis, whether it's OK to buy it outright, whether it's OK to lease, to hire, or any other type of financial arrangement. Finally, there are many other financial consideration of taxes, government subsidies, and social environmental considerations. The issue here is as follows. You may build a plant in some place, or a warehouse. This means that the local government may give you some tax breaks, maybe even subsidize the development of infrastructure around your new plant because you're going to provide a lot of jobs in the area. So it has a social dimension. There may be also environmental considerations. You want to make sure that your new facility, for example, is not on some wetland, on some area that require a lot of remediation and a lot of preparation before you can make use of it. Let's now talk about the lifetime cost of capital items. This was the first item that we mentioned beyond starter purchasing in the last slide. So the first thing you want to talk about the specification. And here you talk about the design. You may want to work with consultants on the design. Want to work on the specification and on the requisition, how you're going to specify what you need from the supplier. The price, of course, has several elements, not only the purchase price, but commissioning, the start-up, the price of spares. You may have to pay for transportation, for insurance. There may be taxes and duties, all kind of cost items that you have to take into account before you decide which suppliers to engage. Then there is the purchasing process itself, the tendering, the contracting, which may be pretty complicated because we've covered the life of the contractors which may be 20, 30, 50 years. You may want to have inspection. The whole receipt process, there's inspection then, administration. You want somebody to handle the invoice, which may be pretty complicated. There may be some storage costs. Then you get into the installation, which may involved construction, again inspection, and testing, and site acceptance, again, making sure the site doesn't present any bad surprises. It may involve training and certification. All of these are costs that have to be taken into account. The operation itself during the life of the capital assets. How much will it cost to operate? How much will it cost to maintain? It may have to be modified over time when new technology can be incorporated, or new software can be incorporated in the item, the machine, the plant, whatever. What's the downtime? Can the supplier guarantee 99% uptime, for example? Can the supplier guarantee a steady supply of spares, or you have to keep some inventory of spares? What is the energy consumption there? All of these things have to be taken into account. Finally, when you talk about disposal at the end of life, what would it cost to decommission it? Some product may have all kind of material in them like mercury that cannot be easily disposed of. On the other hand, the equipment or the product may have some salvage value. You may be able to sell it. You may be able to scrap it. You may be able to deconstruct it and get some of the important metals and other parts out of it to use elsewhere. You may sell it off to somebody, but then you may need to train this third party. You have to think about all of this. Now, a few things to watch for in this process. The first one is local approval process. Because it involves large capital expenditure, many levels in the organization have the approval on the process. They have to understand, inspect, send it back, and approve the price, approve what you're going to do. There is a chance that throughout this process, the supplier will learn prematurely before the contract is done that he or she won the contract. This gives the supplier undue leverage, and you don't want to be in this situation. So you have to keep tight lid on the process. Tied to this is the purchasing department should insist on enough time for negotiations and contracting, and this time should be built into the contract and everybody in the corporation has to understand that it takes time, and they have to keep quiet about it and let the purchasing department do its job. Finally, something that was mentioned before, you want to include performance [INAUDIBLE] guarantees in the contract. You want to make sure that over time, the plant, the machinery, whatever, will be working and will have certain uptime, and the supplier will be responsible for this. So let's stop here, and we will go soon to the next section.

## Outsourcing - Part I
In the next segment, we'll talk about outsourcing. Outsourcing is basically the movement of a set of activities or functional services to a contractor instead of doing it internally within the company. So the question is why outsource? There are several reasons for thinking about outsourcing. The external supply may have better capability than we have. The external supplier simply has more appropriate capacity. We need our capacity to do something else. We want to free resources for other purposes. In some cases, the supplier's simply better and can reduce the operating cost. We may be in need of cash and by selling an asset to a provider and letting they provider operator this asset for us gives us a certain cash and then we pay the provider over time for the use of the asset. You can do it in order to spread risk. So you are worried about the certain risk that have to do with a certain operation and you want the supplier to be the owner of the operation or asset. Of course, you may not have internal resource. In this case, it's obvious why you do it. Many companies outsource because simply they want to focus more tightly on the core business. They want to focus on what they're good it, rather than peripheral function. Finally, the supplier may have better economies of scale. They may be servicing several companies like you, and because of economies of scale, the costs are lower, the service is better, what have you. Now the main contributor to success of outsourcing is first of all when the activity is well defined. You don't want to outsource a process that is not well defined because there is no reason to think that the supplier will be better than you in this case. You want to make sure that you have your role and responsibilities of all the parties are very clear. Who is doing what and when and how much they're getting paid for it. You want to have a good relationship with the supplier. The supplier's actually now doing a function that you used to be doing in house, so you want to have a good relationship with the supplier. Finally, you want a high quality supplier. You want somebody who is good at what they do. And the last point is that you want effective contract management. What I mean by that? You want a single point of contact. So you want somebody in your organization and somebody from the supplier organization, maybe even the CEO if this is an important outsourcing arrangement. This has to be the single point for contact between the companies. You want continuously business reviews to find out what's going on, what's going well, what's not going well, and what should be improved. You always want to have regular site visits to see with your own eyes how the suppliers conducting the business. You want to keep performance indicator current. They may change from time to time as the needs change from time to time. This has to be included in the contract and actually has to be changed as needs change. And you always communicate, communicate, communicate. Over communication is not a problem. Under communication is a problem. Now let's go over some key contractual elements. First of all, the definition of what's required. It has to be comprehensive, exactly what is required. What do you want to supplier to do? Then you have to define the process of service evolution. There will be changes in the environment. You want continuous improvement on the part of the supplier. You want to put down the audit and reporting procedure. You want the ability to change services, to add service and delete service. You want to have a process of doing it that is fair to all sides. You want the ability to change volumes, if something, suddenly your business goes up and the supplier has to supply more, you want to make sure that they maybe charge you less because they now have economies of scale. Or they don't have capacity, and they have to have new capacity and they may charge you more, but you have to think about all of this ahead of time. Finally, or the next point, is the service never. There have to be meaningful key performance indicator and targets. So you know if you want 90% on time, you actually measure it and it's something that's important to you. In some contracts, when there is shared risk and reward, you want to think about how you're going to measure this. How you're going to measure the service, for example. You say, I expect 90% on time service, but if it's 95%, I'll give you a little more money. On the other hand if it's 85%, you're going to get penalized for this. Finally, you want the objectives of both sides and the acceptance process of these objectives to be set. Let's continue. Change control process. What happens if the supply gets bought? Do you need approval process over this? What happens if a competitor buys a supplier? How do you protect your intellectual property. Maybe a competitor is buying the supplier. You want to make sure that you avoid lock-in. Lock-in means that you are tied to a particular technology, particular solution, even particular suppliers because-- although outsourcing contracts are longer term by their very nature, you want to make sure there's some out if something fundamentally changes. Of course, you always want to do ongoing market testing and benchmarking, find out if there are others in the marketplace who can provide even better service, and you want to take it back to your partner and find out why that supplier is not as good. You want the whole process of dispute resolution. When there's a key employee change, you may rely on a team of engineers in the supplier are very, very good, world class, and suddenly, several members of the team leave to start their own start up in a totally different business. So you want also to review key employees, and you also want to make sure you have a say in the hiring of key employees. You also want to think about termination process. Force majeure is a contractual term when a supplier says I cannot supply something because something happened. There's a force of God. There's a flood. There's an earthquake. I just cannot supply something. You want to limit those to make sure the supplier has an incentive to have extra inventory, extra plants, and processes to get out of a disruption without just resorting to force majeure. You want to include support for the new contractor, and if you have to terminate the process, if you have to terminate the outsourcing agreement, you need to train a new outsourcing supplier. Records have to be destroyed and returned. And now the question is who owns the capital assets? Who pays for the cost of moving the equipment or plant to a new location. Maybe they share it. Maybe one party is responsible, or another. A very important issue is the usual of intellectual property ownership. Who owns the knowledge base, the data work product, the engineer design, the vendor list, the price data, and on and on and on. The software, the test databases, the engineering analysis, all of this. The question is who owns them when you have to terminate the contract. Most importantly, do you retain the knowledge to monitor the next contractor performance, to take the work back in house or what are the effects of this on engineering talent? When you go to outsourcing, you have to think that-- and I've known several companies who had this problem when they outsourced product design to China-- suddenly they saw that many of their engineers were leaving the company, because they didn't want to just fly to China and be responsible for monitoring Chinese manufacturers. They became engineers because they like to do the design and they like to do the engineering. So you have to think about the effect of total outsourcing on your engineering talent in house.

## Outsourcing - Part II
We talked before during the first segment, on the River Rouge plant. This was the ultimate in no outsourcing. This is the ultimate in vertical integration. Ford owned all factors of production, the wood, the rubber, the iron ore, everything that was used to make steel and wood, and power the plant, and out came cars. The exact opposite is the Volkswagen Resende truck plant in Brazil. There it works as follows. There are certain items that are being done on the production line and each item is being performed by a different company. So there's a company that provides chassis, other company provides the axles, other company provides the wheel, other company provides the engine, the cabin, the body, the paint job. Everything is done by suppliers. Suppliers even providing the internal logistics and Volkswagen is only responsible for the overhead functions. So this is always the ultimate in outsourcing. Now, the advantages of outsourcing are that it can convert fixed cost to variable cost. So it provides some flexibility to adjust capacity and balance work force requirement. It reduces capital investment requirements. You don't have to buy, you can simply outsource. You can accelerate new product development, because the partner to whom you outsource may have capabilities to innovate that you don't have and may accelerate new product development. We mentioned supplier economics and lower weight structure possibly that reduce your cost. And you get access to invention innovation from supplier through this type of partnership. You also can gain access to new markets. For example, Boeing originally outsourced the making of the wings of several of its planes to Mitsubishi, in order to be able to sell jets to Japanese airlines who insisted that some of the manufacturing will be done in their country. Now, you want to focus your own resources on high-value additivity, what's called your core competency. The things that you are good at. The things that give you a competitive advantage. So you don't want to be involved in managing and running operations that are not high-value added. Now, of course, like every other issue, there's the plus side and the minus side. You think about the main example here is the outsourcing to China, which originally was done because of low labor rates. But labor rate is now going up and the advantage of labor shrink as countries mature. And direct labor also becomes a smaller and smaller part of the total cost, because of robotics, and automation, and provision of services. So manufacturing labor is really becoming a very small part of the equation. And in fact, in many countries, labor costs are going up. Supply chain management is difficult when you have offshore suppliers. When you have people who have to fly to China all the time and it takes a long time before the product gets on the ship and gets all the way back to Europe or to the United States, supply chain management becomes more challenging. Lead time may be a problem with suppliers. It may take several months until the product gets into your shop and your customer. So this may be a problem, because during the time that-- during the month or long weeks that the product is on the ocean, requirements may change, technology may change, and you are stuck with certain products. Then there are security considerations. With world-wide terrorism, and Somali pirates, and other issues, the whole idea of offshore procurement is questionable. Now, of course, not all outsourcing is offshore. But offshore outsourcing is a major issue in outsourcing. And usually the main reason for outsourcing is to go offshore and to low labor rate countries. So this is where all these questions come up. There's also a strategic risk. You can create a competitor. In 1914, the Dodge brother turned from a Ford engine supplier to a competitor. The Japanese consumer electronics industry started with contracting for a US firm for radio receiver, for RCA. But then they adopted the transistor faster, and today, there are no TV makers in the United States. Japanese industry and later Korea and others decimated the US consumer electronic industry. We mentioned before that Boeing contracted with Mitsubishi to provide wings for its aircraft. Guess what? Mitsubishi is now making aircrafts competing directly with Boeing. So you can lose the control of the channel to a supplier. More than just a competitor, supplier can just take control of the channel. IBM in 1980, designed the PC, designed the manufacturing process, and had the entire value chain. And then it contracted two small companies at the time, Microsoft and Intel, to provide the operating system and the chip. What became out of it is a machine that was characterized by being a Windows machine and Intel inside. The operating system and the chip were the most important component. And many, many companies could make the box. In fact, IBM left that business. By the way, you can also lose control of a channel to a customer. If you think about the relationship between Procter & Gamble and Walmart. Walmart is now making detergents, which are bread and butter of Procter & Gamble's product, because unlike Intel inside, it now may be Walmart outside. People may come to Walmart to shop at Walmart, not because they want to buy a certain product, but because they like to shop at Walmart. Another example of a complete cost consideration was not taking into account. Marks and Spencer, the British retailer, started in 1998 to move purchasing overseas. It severed relationships with long-time suppliers who would not agree to procure in the Far East. Even though Marks and Spencer was known for British-procured goods, it decided to change. It could not compete anymore, so it forced long-term suppliers to go overseas. And those that didn't go, it severed their relationship with them and started buying from Chinese and other Far East suppliers. It did not take into account all the costs and what happened is the stock price took a dive and went down substantially. And Marks and Spencer was on the verge of going bankrupt. Similarly, the Boeing 787 manufacturing was a case study in how not to outsource. Boeing decided to reduce the risk of developing a completely new aircraft, because it will use new technologies rather than aluminum, which is all kinds of epoxies for the body. So it decided to use not only new technologies, but new supply chain. It wanted suppliers to take on risk and develop a large component of the aircraft. And then they'll put up the capital to do it and then sell the part to Boeing. So these are some of the main suppliers of Boeing. You see they are all over the world. Every supplier was responsible for a certain part of the airplane. And this is just a general view. There are many more suppliers all over the world. The result was delays for the 787. They were years and years for delay and they had to pay compensation for customers. This was the stock price of Boeing at the time. It had a lot of problems, couldn't get the supplier to build the part as needed. Finally, several suppliers have delays of their own. And the example here is the Rolls-Royce engines. It's a good supplier, like Rolls-Royce, even it had problems building the specialized engine needed for the 787. So with this, after looking at the benefits and risk of outsourcing, let's stop with this segment.

## Purchasing Social Responsibility
In the last segment of this lesson, we will talk about corporate social responsibility or CSR as it manifests itself in the purchasing of products and services. So in general, one can think that there are three hurdles to success. A company must meet or exceed marketplace demand. It has to be ahead of the competition. A company must meet or exceed regulatory demand. It has to operate legally within the framework of the law. And it has to meet or exceed the social demand of civil society. It cannot do something that is against what civil society thinks are the right things to do. So there's a range of activities that we can include in corporate social responsibilities. These may include philanthropy, include activities that are done to enhance the brand, include activities that are aimed at attracting people, include activities that support the main mission of the company, include social business, and include activity that directly support the cost reduction or increase revenue, which mean increase the profits of the business. And let's give examples of each one of those. So an example of philanthropy is WalMart, which in 2007 gave over $100 million to all the communities where they do business. Example of brand image is Ben & Jerry's, the ice cream maker, and Starbucks coffee. Both of them are very environmentally responsible. And this environmental responsibility is just to enhance their brand. So Ben & Jerry's is known as a company that has a very small carbon footprint. And Starbucks is a company that makes sure that all its employees have health care. It actually now also allows employees to take a degree, a graduate degree at night, and they'll pay for it. So it treats its employees well, and it treats the farmer and the suppliers well. An example of HR attraction is T&T, the logistics company, which contract with the World Food Program to provide food to communities all over the world. This helped employees pride and satisfaction in being employees of T&T, and it helps retain employees and attract new employees into T&T. An example of mission support is Cisco Network Academy. Cisco allows people who are right now may be on minimum wage to take a course for free in the evening at their Network Academy. And they have academies like this all over the United States. Within several months, sometimes years, they train these people to be network technicians, to be able to fix the Cisco network. Now on the one hand, this is a corporate social responsibility or a social mission because they allow those people to move from minimum wage to middle class salaries. On the other hand, it also helps Cisco because there are dozens of those or hundreds of those in some cities, and they can go to a new customer and tell the customer look, if you buy our equipment, there will be 152 technicians within two miles of your place. And this is our website, and this is who they are, and you can get them. An example of social business is either Patagonia, what they call doing well by doing good, or micro-financing that took place in Bangladesh to begin with and then in several other countries, where money was given mostly to women, small amount of money to start businesses. Turned out to be a very profitable business, because there were almost no defaults on this money. Patagonia did something else. They had ads in the newspaper when they came out with a new product several years ago, and the ad said don't buy this jacket. They were trying to convince people to go and buy used jacket, used Patagonia jacket on eBay. Now, why is it good for Patagonia? Clearly it's good for the environment because if people don't throw away a jacket and don't buy a new one, but somebody buys a used one, then a new one doesn't have to be made. And there's smaller environmental footprint. But it also helped the business. That's why Patagonia was doing well by doing good, because think about it. It helped sell the new jacket because people now knew that even though the jackets are expensive, they can sell them after a few years. There's a market for them. There's also a message about how durable this jacket is, that they last a long time and you can sell them later on. So all of this helped Patagonia's business. And in fact, many of its competitors thought it was just a marketing trick, and not really done for corporate social responsibility, even though Patagonia is a company committed to corporate social responsibility. Finally, there's many, many examples of so-called eco efficiency, or efficiency, reducing cost, and at the same time reducing the carbon footprint. IBM operating now green data centers powered by sun power, by wind power, by hydro power. And many of these centers consume no fossil fuel energy, so they don't contribute anything to global warming. And at the same time, energy costs are lower. So they both are good for the environment and good for cost reductions. Many, many examples like these. Many companies change light bulbs or reduce the speed of trucks. They reduce the energy consumption, reduce costs, but also reduce the emission and the use of fossil fuel. So one can think about a range of procurement activities in order to make sure the suppliers are environmentally responsible. The first one is having a code of conduct. Many companies have a code of conduct for the supplier. For example, Ikea have what is called IWAY, or IKEA Way. This is a set of principles that govern who can be a supplier for IKEA. And suppliers, if they fall on one of them and don't comply with one of them, they have a certain time to make good and to improve, otherwise they stop being suppliers. Unless it's one of those very important items that there's no recovery from them. For example, if IKEA discovers that somebody is using slave labor or child labor, the supplier is cut off immediately. But this is all included in the code of conduct. Of course, the code of conduct requires regular auditing. For example, many companies, IKEA and many others are doing auditing of suppliers. Intel is trying to make sure, or has now made sure that it's not using any conflict minerals. These are minerals that are mined in the Democratic Republic of Congo through conditions of slave labor and coercion in conflict area by guerrilla group and gangs. So it's now enshrined in US law, but even before the law, Intel tried to make sure that it's not using any mineral mined in the Congo. For this, it had to go very deep in the supply chain and finally get to the smelters, which is the last point where one can audit where the conflict minerals are coming from. But audit was key to find out that it is free of conflict minerals. Many companies also train suppliers to become better. For example, Starbucks has over 100,000 suppliers of coffee. And it works with all of them to make sure that they use efficient processes, they use just enough water and not too much, and use the right minerals in the ground, and they work with the land in an efficient way. These things both reduce the environmental footprint of growing coffee, and they also actually reduce the cost or they making the farms a lot more productive, and thereby reducing the cost. Unilever does the same thing with their tea plantations and many of their other materials that they get into their products. Finally, there's supply chain transparency. There's the issue of you want to be very transparent, to show everybody that you're actually doing the right thing. So the example is Patagonia. If you go to the Patagonia site and click on a certain product, and then click on what's called the footprint chronicle, you will get a picture something like this. You will first get a picture of a map with a location of all the suppliers who contribute parts and material to the product, and where the product is actually assembled or made. And then when you click on each supplier, you'll get a lot more information on the supplier, including for example the ratio of females and males, including the language spoken, what they make here. But a whole history of their corporate social responsibility, how they treat their employees. Were there any problems that Patagonia found through the audit? Or the existing problem, how much time they have to fix this problem? So the good and the bad about each one of these suppliers. This type of transparency makes sure that Patagonia creates pressure on itself and its competitors to provide similar transparency and not to hide anything, making sure that everybody who is using Patagonia product can be sure that they're using a product responsibly produced. You can think by way of summary about the hierarchy of procurement, corporate social responsibility. We think about economic responsibility. As we mentioned at the beginning, one has to be ahead of the competition. One has to be within the confines of the law, and have to fulfill any legal responsibility. One has to have so-called license to operate, and fulfill any ethical responsibility. And finally, there are discretionary responsibility, where one might go beyond just standard ethical responsibility or provide some philanthropy on top of everything. So let's summarize this lesson. We started saying that procurement is based on more than cost. Remember the iceberg scenario, the iceberg metaphor. As you deal more and more into the item that you buy, you discover there are many hidden costs that should be taken into account. We can segment the buy into complexity versus spend. And the important quadrant there is the critical buy, that should be reduced either by substitution, simplification, or partnership. So you move the upper left corner into the lower left corner, the lower right corner, or the upper right corner through substitution, simplification, or partnership. The procurement process, we went through the process itself, but the most important part or one of the important part is that it should be followed by data collection and reporting for the next contract. So when you come to procure the same item a year or two years from now, you're not in the same position but you know more. It's important to be a good customer. You have to look internally. Ask your suppliers what you can do in order to simplify processes. Be a better customer, because this will be reflected in the price and in the service. We talk about volatility that can be handled by hedging, either financial hedging or actual hedging. We talked about options. And another way of handling volatility is to separate between the stable and volatile element, and to tie the volatile element to some index. We mentioned that capital goods require special attention, and we talked about certain issues with capital goods that one should pay attention to. We talked about the pros and cons in outsourcing, the fact that it may help you concentrate on the main business, on your core competency. It also may change fixed costs into variable costs. But on the other hand, you may create a competitor, and the business may be taken away from you. Finally, we talked about supplier CSR, and understand that supplier corporate social responsibility reflects on the company. In fact, suppliers by and large are not very susceptible to NGO attack on the corporate social responsibility processes. The companies who are susceptible are the brand holder, the OEM, because they sell to consumers and NGO campaigns usually are aimed at swaying consumers to avoid using the product of a company, even though the offenders may be deep in the supply chain. So let's stop here, and thank you for listening to this lesson.
