# week10 lesson1 sc finance financial performance

(SC2x video lecture transcript)

## Defining Supply Chain Finance
Hi, this is Jim Rice. Welcome to the supply chain finance module. This lesson, we're talking about defining supply chain finance. Our objective here is to introduce you to the concept of supply chain finance, and define the difference between supply chain financial analysis and supply chain finance. We will also review the principles that made this an emerging and important issue for organizations. And as often is the case, we're not intending to make you supply chain financing experts in this particular content. So supply chain finance, I would argue, has taken on a new meaning. And up to this point supply chain finance, that term has been used as a very broad term. It basically means what we think of as a supply chain. We think about it if we looked at it through a financial lens. So what are the financial impacts coming from a supply chain transaction like the sale of inventory, or the investment in a certain supply chain capability? What is the financial performance impact of some of these different transactions? That's how it's been used, very broadly speaking. But now it has a very specific meaning, this term supply chain financing. It refers to the method to provide liquidity to buyers and sellers. It's not new. Payment terms such as net 30, or 2%, 10 net 30 have existed. I'll explain that in a subsequent segment. The concept is not new but the term is new. And the extent to which it's being used is new, also. We've got to understand what liquidity is. And I'll use the definition borrowed from our colleagues over at Investopedia. They say liquidity is the degree to which an asset or security can be quickly bought or sold in the market without affecting the assets price. Well, I like to think about that as basically the ability for the organization to take some of their assets-- in particular, an asset would be a receivable that they have from a buyer which has an obligation to pay them-- basically to convert that quickly into cash. Now other assets they may want to convert into cash would include inventory and other materials that they might have. Liquidity is really important because you need cash to operate your business. And this was an issue-- has become an issue now-- because as a result of the global financial crisis of 2008, credit is just not available to organizations in the same way as it was previously. It's not just coming at a higher cost, sometimes the credit, the availability of cash, is just not available. And so organizations are looking for different ways to reduce the amount of capital that they need-- the cash or working capital-- that they need. One way for buyers to do that is extend their payments. And those payment terms have been extended from three to 30 days up to 150 days, pretty long time. And so what that means is that suppliers have to operate during that time frame, up to 150 days, without getting paid by that particular customer. Well, that means they need cash, cash to operate, and again that's why liquidity is important. That leads us up to supply chain finance, so better understand it. And it's the set of solutions that allow a company to finance its own working capital. This is a definition offered by my colleagues at Polytechnic [INAUDIBLE]. And an important point to note here is that it often leverages the role of supply chain relationships with other plays and supply chain. Basically if a small supplier collaborates with a larger customer, and the larger customer can make an arrangement with the bank-- to say, hey, you know what? I have a supplier who needs cash. Can you help them out? And basically trade on the credit worthiness of the larger customer that may have better credit terms. Well, then that small supplier gets the benefit out of that. There are many different benefits. And just to be clear, when we talk about financing, we're talking about the-- according to our friends at Investopedia-- the act of providing funds, the funds for activities, whether they're making purchases or investing. And this often involves third parties. And then supply chains are financing or funding their operations, specifically funding their payables, and sometimes they're funding their inventory. Again, to allow them to operate. Because you've got to have cash to pay your suppliers, to pay your utilities, to pay your employees. Liquidity in a cash conversion cycle-- worthwhile talking a little bit about the cash conversion cycle. It's one way to look at the requirement for a working capital, and how that capital is utilized across three different ways it's used. It's used to pay suppliers. It's used by customers when they're paying their suppliers. And of course, it's used to invest in materials, and labor, and salespeople to produce and sell a product. So when we think about a cash conversion cycle, we think about the time it takes from the time that organization puts one unit of money in as an investment, to when they finally get that investment returned-- and usually with the sale of product. And that cycle time is called the cash conversion cycle. For organizations to reduce the time it takes for them to get that money back, they take a variety of different actions that could include reducing the cycle time for producing a product, selling it more quickly, slowing down payments to suppliers that reduce the working capital, but also arranging for faster payments from customers. Let me give you an example that might be a helpful illustration here. We see a number of companies in the consumer products industry from 2016. All this data is from their annual reports. We've broken out their cash conversion cycle into the days of inventory outstanding, the days of sales outstanding, the days of payables outstanding. Many of these organizations, we can see here, are operating at what's called negative cash conversion cycle. And what that means is they're using OPM, or other people's money, to fund their operations. So let's look at the case of Nestle. They're paying in 147 days. So it takes 147 days for them to pay their suppliers. Well, they're using that money to fund their operation. And let's just look at this-- the days of inventory outstanding. That's basically the time it takes for a company to produce a product and then to sell it. And then maybe that takes them 68 days, so they're using 68 of those 147 days of their payments, they're using them for that. Which basically means, overall, that Nestle has been sitting on somebody else's money for almost 30 days. Pretty good deal. But you can see a look at Kimberly-Clark, they have to fund their operation for upwards of 19 days. So that's actually pretty good, but still they need to have cash to operate for 19 days. If you do this for other organizations you'll see a variety of different ranges but this gives you a little bit of an idea of how the cash is used when people-- one way to look at working capital and how it's employed by organizations. Key points here, that payment terms have increased. Credit has become more difficult, which makes it much more difficult for suppliers to operate with these long payment cycles. Therefore, they have the need to finance some of these assets that they have-- inventory, or receivable-- in order for them to actually operate, to fund their business, to pay their bills. Now supply chain finance is a specific term that is now being used to describe that process where firms reach out to finance their operations. And the cash conversion cycle provides a useful illustration for how different companies can use capital. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use the discussion forum. I look forward to seeing you in a future segment. Thank you.

## Supply Chain Finance Basics
Hi, this is Jim Rice. And welcome to this segment of the supply chain finance module. We're focused on supply chain finance basics. This segment we're going to be focused specifically on explaining how the supply chain finance works. And I'll use one example to illustrate-- it'll be one of the most common methods-- it's called factoring. And there are a couple of variations there, we'll talk right about that. Now there are two options for financing. Generally speaking, not just about supply chains-- generally speaking, two options for financing-- debt and using it. And you can use debt or equity. Debt is basically a loan. Equities are basically when you sell part of whatever you have to raise cash. And when we apply these options to the supply chain most of the time the firms are using debt or loans to provide that liquidity, or the cash to the firm. Sometimes it doesn't entail the sale of an asset-- and the asset in most cases are going to be a receivable from the buyer, that is an obligation to pay from the buyer, and usually that occurs at a deep discount. In this case, example, I'm going to go over today, is going to be factoring. And that's where they are selling the receivable. Again there are many variations and each has its own advantages and disadvantages. Let's just go over basically how supply chain works. Take the case of a raw material purchase. And it all starts when the customer places an order on the supplier. And the supplier then goes through the process of buying the raw materials, producing the product, and then ultimately they deliver-- at time t equals zero. Well, at time t equals zero, two things occur. The customer-- a clock starts if you will, on the obligation for the customer to pay the supplier. And the supplier actually gets an obligation to pay a certain amount. In this case we've identified that as an amount y, at a certain time. And that times it t equals x, we haven't defined that particular time. And so that's the basic way it works for a purchase and sale. Now a seller, if they don't want to wait these x days they can consider other options. And let's talk about one particular option called factoring. Now again, if the seller does not want to wait the seller can include and involve a third party. And in this particular case I've suggested it's a collection agency. Whatever that particular third party is they're called the factor. And so the factor is going to purchase the obligation to pay from the buyer. They're going to purchase that from the supplier. And so this collections agency, the factor, is going to get this obligation to pay y at time x. And they're going to collect that from the customer. So in exchange for that though the collections agency gives cash-- money-- and a certain amount to the supplier. And in that particular case, it's going to be whatever that amount is less some percentage. We don't know what that percentage is. It varies based on a number of different factors. So that's basically how factoring works. But there are a couple of different options. Factoring has two specific options. One is where you have factoring with recourse and factoring without recourse. It's very simple. In the case of factoring with recourse the factor can go back to the seller to collect if the buyer fails to pay. And factoring without recourse is the case where the factor has no option to go back to the seller to collect. They can only collect from the buyer. Let's look at how that works out using this example as I portrayed before. We have a third party, the factor, in this case, the collections agency. They've made arrangements to buy that obligation to pay y at time x from the supplier. And their intention is to collect from the customer. But the customer fails to pay. In this case when they have factoring with recourse they go back to the seller, and the seller has an obligation to pay the factor, and they repay that factor. Of course, the terms, how much, and timing-- that's subject to the agreement that is created between the seller, and the agency-- and the factor. Now factoring without recourse is the same process as we've outlined before. The factor buys that obligation to pay. But when they go to collect and the customer fails to pay, they don't have any other options. So broadly speaking, there are many options to finance receivables. Factoring is a common approach. And some of the other options are a function of a couple of different factors, whether you want to borrow against it, or you want to sell that receivable. The timing of the payments is an important factor-- who bears the risk is very important because that also determines the rate that someone might appreciate or enjoy-- and the use of different kinds of collateral, and also who initiates the arrangement. So each of these have different impacts on net operating working capital, which is of course one of the key objectives when one organization goes to finance their different components of the supply chain. Let's just note that it's really important to be specific about the terms that you're using and the details. Because factoring is, as I have described here, it sometimes goes by different terms. And so what you really have to do is be very clear about what are the specific terms of the agreement. So key points here is that companies have two basic options to finance receivables. You can either take a loan against the receivable or they can sell it. And factoring is a very common approach to financing receivables. And when factoring sellers use a third party basically to sell their receivable in order to get cash. And there's two options, factoring with or without recourse. And those of course, have some bearing on what the costs are, and what the risks are. And finally, be very clear about the specific financing arrangements and terms. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use the discussion forum. And I'll see you in the next segment. Thanks.

## Supply Chain Finance Options
Hi. Welcome to the supply chain finance module. In this lesson, we're going to talk about supply chain finance options. My objective in this particular segment is really to explain a number of different options that exist for the firms to finance their supply chain, and that's specifically focused, of course, on providing liquidity in the supply chain. We're going to consider the benefits of supply chain financing, and we're not going to make you experts, though. There exist many different options. We've talked about factoring, but you can see that there are a lot of different possibilities. We're going to talk about each of these. There are also some advanced options which involve the use of information technology. But beware, these terms mean different things to different people. There are many different ways to structure these arrangements. So be careful to understand the specifics of each and every one of these when you're using these terms and hearing others use these. Start with invoice discount. This is initiated by the seller. There's not a third party involved. And the seller basically offers a lower price to the buyer in exchange for early payment. So instead of paying a certain amount of y at time t equals x, what we see is the seller's offering the buyer to pay them 2% less than the invoice total if they pay in 10 days. And their other option is to pay 30 days. The timing and the amount is set by the seller. And the buyer gets to choose whether he or she wants to exercise that option or not. Financing a loan, also known as the invoice discount plus, is basically where the seller uses the receivable, which was an asset, as collateral for the basis of a loan from a bank. It's initiated by the seller, a third party is involved, and the seller again uses the invoice as collateral for a loan with a third party. And so we have the bank makes a loan of a certain amount, y, and then the seller is obliged to make payments of y plus some percentage. And if the seller defaults, then they get to use the collateral as their asset. And again, that's collateral, that's backing up the loan. Now important in this is that the bank uses the seller's credit risk to set the rate. They're only looking at the supplier in this case, or the seller. They're not looking at this customer to set that rate. Forfeiting is very similar to factoring without recourse, except it's used for exports and imports. It's initiated by the seller. And a third party's involved, typically [INAUDIBLE] an organization that has some expertise in export and import. And basically the seller is selling the receivable to a third party at a discount. And the third party buys that, they collect from the buyer. And if the buyer fails to pay, third party takes a risk. And they cannot collect from the seller. Now forfeiting is I think a little more different, has some more complexities of course, because in the export-import process you have materials going across borders, much more administration, more compliance. A lot more parties, more risk involved. And so you'd see that the risks, the compensation is going to be higher for those who are exercising this kind of arrangement. Reverse factoring sounds like factoring, but it's quite different. It's initiated by the buyer. And the buyer also initiates the financing operations, which in this case is a loan. Remember in factoring, the factoring was a sale of the receivable. A third party is involved through the buyer. Typically it's a bank that the buyer is familiar with. And the seller has the option to use the financing options offered. Now a third party basically offers to finance a receivable. But what's interesting here is that they're using the buyer's credit risk. So not the supplier, but the buyer's credit risk. If this buyer happens to be a bigger company, and they're doing a lot of business with that particular bank, that's good news for the supplier, because that means that they're going to have a lower cost loan. Because for the bank, it's a lower risk loan. Now let's talk about dynamic discount. This is basically an invoice discount, with changing terms. In the previous example of invoice discount, there was a fixed term. In this case, it's basically the same thing. But what's different here instead of the offer of say, 2% net 30, the seller might go to the buyer and say, look, we really need cash. So we're going to give you a deeper discount, but you've got to pay us even sooner, five days. Or some different arrangement-- 1% [? 20, ?] meaning 1% discount if the buyer pays within 20 days. So basically it's something that's negotiated. And of course, there's going to be a tradeoff. You're basically getting paid less. If you're the seller, you're getting paid less. But you're getting paid earlier. And inventory financing is quite different. In this case, the firm is not trying to finance a receivable, but instead they're trying to finance inventory. It's initiated by the seller, a third party is involved, and basically the seller arranges to get a loan or line of credit in order to purchase materials. This is often used when the seller has to build inventory in advance of a peak demand season, and where they may not have the adequate resources to invest in all the raw materials necessary to build that inventory. One important distinction here is that the third party is using the seller's inventory as collateral. Invoice auction is actually very similar to factoring without recourse. Let me explain. It's initiated by the seller, but third parties are invited. And the seller arranges an auction process to solicit bids for the invoice. So instead of with factoring without recourse, going to one party and making [INAUDIBLE] an agreement, they're basically holding an auction saying anybody can bid on this and the highest bidder wins. The only distinction is that here they're using an auction process to find that third party. Now keep in mind that the firm may not need to create their own auction process. There's existing auction platforms that they could use. And then you have to keep in mind that sometimes, you may have a customer who says, you are not allowed to sell my invoice. So I'm only going to pay you. And again, that would be subject to the contractual agreements between the buyer and the seller. And that may limit their options for financing. Now as I suggested earlier, there are some advanced options that involve the use of information technology that allows the firm to use automated processes that reduces the uncertainty that might actually make the cost of operations lower, may provide more information, which helps them have more informed risk assessments. And if they're more informed risk assessments, that means that firms may be able extend more favorable rates to the sellers when they're trying to finance that supply chain. Ultimately it's proactive use of IT for faster and better decision-making. Now there are some other options to finance the supply chain. These are non-financial, basically operational. And it's using things like consignment inventory, where the customer will utilize suppliers inventory, but not pay for it until they actually use it. So they'll keep it on hand, but then they'll have it ready and available. But that's basically where the capital requirement's pushed onto the supplier. Direct shipments, that allows an organization to not depend on intermediary inventory locations. And that would tie up capital. If you can ship direct to the customer, then you don't have to worry about that and there's less capital tied up. And then of course there's various forms of collaboration, [INAUDIBLE] [? managed ?] inventories, sales and operations planning, collaborative planning, forecasting, and replenishment and continuous replenishment process. Each of these allows the organization to potentially get in better alignment with their partner, and then that may help them reduce the amount of inventory necessary to maintain service levels. The benefits of supply chain, there are many potential benefits. A primary one for our purposes is the possibility of reducing in operating working capital. But overall, it also includes a possibility to lower cost operations. You may have for the buyers, they may get discounts. For the sellers, they may get lower cost loans. If there's an aggressive use of information, the cycle times might be faster. If the cash comes to you faster, than you may be able to operate faster. You may be able to reduce the cash conversion cycle. And then for those in thinking about their supply chain, may make their supply chain more robust. Because if you're collaborating with your upstream or downstream partner, you're basically making sure that they're going to be a more healthy supplier and more capable to supply your needs when you need them. And then of course there's benefits to third parties who are providing those loans, because they're getting more loans. That's desired by them. Key points, companies have many options to finance the supply chain, driven by a number of different factors. We've talked about many of them, and ultimately all of these provide the potential to reduce net operating working capital, including some operational methods as well. And then, of course, there are potential benefits for each party involved in these transactions when an organization is using supply chain finance. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use a discussion forum and look forward to seeing your future segment. Thanks.

## Analyzing Financial Performance
Let's begin with a brief introduction to this lesson on analyzing financial performance. First of all, we see the money at the bottom of the screen, and we have to ask the question, who cares about a firm's financial performance? In other words, who's going to be the audience for the analysis that we're going to talk about in this lesson? Well, clearly the investors will care about financial performance because they want to get a good return on their investment. There's also executives within the firm who are setting strategies and making key decisions, and they want to think about the implications of those decisions and strategies on the financial performance so they can keep the investors happy. But even the employees of the firm who may not be making decisions about these strategies would care about the financial performance, especially if it affects their bonus. So some further questions then, how do you analyze financial performance? And how do you measure it? How do you turn the analysis into metrics that you can monitor over time? And specifically for this topic that we're looking at with supply chain management, how do you connect it with financial analysis and measurement, and how does that affect your approach to managing supply chains? We have four lessons. We're going to go over this topic very briefly. We're going to start with the drivers of shareholder value. What's really driving the value for those investors? Secondly, we're going to look at ratio analysis. It's a particular way that you conduct analysis in looking at financial performance. There's a specific framework around a particular set of ratios that we're going to discuss. It's called DuPont analysis. And finally, we'll close with the topic, return on invested capital, which is yet another kind of ratio. This is very short and meant to give you a brief overview, but hopefully it gives you an idea of some of the key aspects in looking at financial performance of a firm.

## Drivers of Shareholder Value
Let's begin our lesson on financial performance by thinking about the drivers of that financial performance or of shareholder value. And let's start right at the top. What are the two goals of the CEO? Well, the first one is taken from the title of the segment. And that is that the CEO must provide shareholder value and meet some of the drivers of that value. The second thing is the CEO has to do this without going to jail. Obviously, there's a legal way of driving value and there are illegal ways of doing that, as Bernie Ebbers found out in 2005. In fact, it's interesting. He got 25 years in prison for this for $11 billion of fraud. So we're going to talk about ratios in a moment here. But maybe there's a ratio for the illicit way of driving shareholder value of a little over two years for every billion of fraud you commit. But on a serious note, we are going to try to think about the drivers of shareholder value. And I think that these are really boiled down to three things-- revenue growth, operating margin, and asset productivity. We'll talk about them more in a moment, but the nice thing about these three things related to the overall objective of this course is that supply chain professionals can affect all three of these. And they should be always on the radar when thinking about our supply chain strategies. Now, where do they come from? Let's start with the balanced scorecard. Kaplan and Norton wrote a lot about this. And this is the paper in 1996 where I pulled this quote. And they say that the measures of the scorecard must be linked. There must be a causal link between those measures of the scorecard and financial objectives. So they're arguing that no matter what we're looking to measure or analyze our performance of our firm, we should find a way to link them to financial objectives. And in doing that, they found that there's really three themes to those strategies that lead to financial objectives. One is revenue growth, which is a direct mapping to what we just talked about. Cost reduction is very linked to operating margin. And asset utilization is another way of thinking about asset productivity. In fact, later on in 2001, they published what they call a strategy map based on the balanced scorecard. And you can see at the top, shareholder value is right there at the top of that map. And right below that are the three components-- revenue growth, cost structure or operating margin, and asset productivity. So you can see that the strategy linked to the balanced scorecard is driven by these three components. Of course, the consultants have to have their own version of this. They take a good academic concept and make it their own with a little bit of different language. At the top is shareholder value. We see revenue growth right here, broken down into both the sales volume you have, as well as the prices for the things you're selling. Operating margin, thinking about both direct and indirect costs. And asset efficiency or asset productivity, which is broken down into the fixed assets of property and equipment and then the working capital, which comprised of inventory, payables, and receivables. Capital. They have a fourth component called expectations. I'm not sure what that's about. We're going to focus on these three components, which are numbers that we can draw from the financial statements and do our analysis. If you also want to see how Deloitte maps all of their consulting services to these three components or four components and shareholder value, you can download it at this link here, at least as of the recording of this video, it worked. So if you want to take a further look into how Deloitte sees all of their consulting linking to shareholder value, you can do that. Of course, when you have three components, three drivers in a business school, you need to make a triangle. But the triangle here is really important to emphasize that these drivers-- there's tradeoffs when you're focusing on these different drivers. And thinking about some supply chain examples. For example, we can think about driving revenue growth, but having better quality products. So we're going to have higher prices for better quality products. But to do that, we may have to buy better quality components and cost of goods sold. And we have to make sure that the tradeoff between these is appropriate so that we're driving value overall. We could improve one and decrease the other-- actually, the operating margin went down by having higher quality goods. So we need to make sure that that tradeoff is effective. On the other side, asset productivity. We could think about building additional warehouses to be closer to customers. That would drive sales volume. More sales would happen because we're closer, providing better service, but our productivity would go down because we have more assets involved in doing that. So again, we have to think about the tradeoff for those two and make sure that the net is going to provide value. And on this third dimension, we could talk about operating margin and say we'd like to have good operating margins, and therefore, we're not going to take any markdowns or discounts. But if the product isn't selling very well, that could mean that we have inventory build up, and we don't get rid of our inventory. And so our asset productivity is not very good. So we have to be careful in thinking about when do we take markdowns to make sure that our asset productivity is-- we're considering that, the productivity of our working capital, and may have to sacrifice some margin to do that. So you can see some examples of tradeoffs here. We can also use this to position where our strategies ares. Our strategy is focused on revenue, on operating margin, on asset productivity, or a balance of those. And position where we want to go with our supply chain relative to these financial measures. This provides a basic framework for driving financial performance that we can link to in our supply chain management.

## Ratio Analysis
The primary type of analysis of financial performance is something called ratio analysis. And it's exactly what it sounds like-- we compute ratios of different things and of different numbers. And those numbers come from the financial statements. We have our income statement here, our balance sheet. And hopefully you're familiar with the terms in these two statements, and we'll use them throughout this segment to pull different parts of the financial statements into ratios, which is simply a numerator over denominator. So it's not complicated math, but how you form the numerator and denominator to effectively tell you something is the key. So we'll pull things from the income statement into the numerator or the denominator. We'll pull things from the balance sheet into both of those as well. It may be on the liabilities and equity side. It could be on assets. They're all going to come together into different ratios that tell us different things about the firm and give us different clues as to its financial performance. Let's start by thinking about some ratios that capture the overall measure of financial performance. And let's start by thinking, is there a single metric-- if we could boil it down to one metric-- that reflects the firm's financial performance for investors, what would that be? And, is there a different metric for executives inside the firm? A single metric that will tell you, how well is the firm performing financially? Well for investors, especially equity investors, they will want to know, what is the return on their equity? Fairly straightforward. And it's calculated by saying, what is the net income of the firm divided by the equity in the firm? And it gives you a ratio of that return on investment, specifically the equity investment. Executives may want to look more broadly than just the equity, and they want to consider the return on the assets that are deployed to create profits. And so, you'll then have return on assets, which is equal to the net income divided by total assets. The assets are used to produce income. How well are we doing that? Is the return sufficient to meet the goals of all the investors, including equity and debt? So we have some high-level measures. We may want to think about some more specific measures, and let's align these with our different drivers of shareholder values. So, first of all, our revenue growth. This is pretty straightforward. We may want to calculate the sales growth from one period to another. So if we have period T, period T minus 1. We divide those two, and subtract that once we get a percent. So let's say we had 100 last period, and we have a 110 this period. We divide those two. We get 1.1 minus 1 equals 0.1, and we might write that as 10% growth from one period to another. You may want to look at the compounded growth over a longer period of time than one period, and you can do that with the second formula. So revenue growth, you might also want to divide this into the growth in terms of sales volume, the actual amount of sales you have in units. You may want to look at the price per unit. You may even look at something-- in retail sector, they look at something called same store sales. So there's some more specific ways to look at sales growth, but it typically boils down to some kind of a growth from one period to another. Operating margin-- it's always looking at, what is the income related to sales? How much of the sales that we're making, or the revenue that we're making, is coming to the bottom line in terms of income? Well, actually, we're going to look at not only the bottom line, which is net income, but at different points in the income statement we may want to pull out a different margin. So our operating margin and our gross margin tell us different things about our ability to create profit from sales. So we'll capture different types of margin by pulling out different types of income from the income statement. In terms of asset productivity, there are a lot of different assets that are used. At a high level, you want to look at our total assets that say, what is our sales divided by our total assets? How are we using our assets to drive revenue? We may want to look more specifically, especially in supply chain, at, how is inventory being productive? So we'll look at the-- we would look at average inventory, and we want to look at COGS. COGS is the cost of goods sold because inventory is booked, in the accounting books, at the cost of goods sold. And so, we want to use that number rather than the sales number, which will also include our markup for the final price. So we'll use COGS as a good indicator for inventory turnover. And average inventory, if you remember the balance sheet, is a snapshot in time. So we can capture a snapshot in time, but we may want to see, well, the inventory might have changed from one period to the next. So we can take an average over the different periods to get a rough approximation. So if inventory went up quite a bit, we may want to take the average inventory of the two periods as a representation. And remember, COGS is going to be representing the cost of goods sold during that period. So the average inventory from the beginning and the end of the period and the COGS during the period was what we would use for inventory turnover. We can do the same for accounts receivable. Accounts receivable, we want to compare that with the turnover of sales that are made on credit. We didn't make-- we may make cash sales, as well. And cash sales are not going to contribute to accounts receivable. So we want to distinguish sales made of credit and see, how often are we turning that over compared to our ability to collect? On the payable side, again, because we're paying the cost of goods sold for things, we want to compare the COGS with the average accounts payable. And again, just like inventory, the accounts payable and the accounts receivable, you may want to average two different snapshots of the balance sheet on the ends of the period, for which we're capturing the COGS. A final way to look at asset productivity is to think about the inventory, accounts receivable, accounts payable, in terms of days. How many days of typical sales-- or in the case of inventory and accounts payable, COGS-- how many days is it taking-- how much days of inventory do we have? How much days of accounts payable do we have? This is actually just the inverse of the turnover. So these two right here are just going to be the inverse of each other. But they are also, oftentimes, more intuitive thinking about it in terms of days. And in fact, if you calculate the days for each of those, you'll get what we call the cash conversion cycle. Let's give an example here to try to work through this. This is an example where we're pulling one income statement, so we're not capturing two. So we'll just use the snapshot in time number for the-- I'm sorry-- for the balance sheet. And the income statement is over the last period. So we don't have the balance sheet from the previous period before the beginning of the income statement. We'll just use the snapshot in time for the balance sheet to be easier. And we'll calculate these six things. You might want to stop the video now and make these calculations yourself, and then check the work. OK so moving on, return on assets. What's our definition of return on assets? Well that's equal to our sales-- actually, not sales-- we don't want to look at sales. We want to look at our return, which is the net income. And we want to divide the net income by our assets, which is total assets down here. So that would be equal to-- we have our net income up here-- 936 divided by 11,300. And if we do that calculation, pull up a calculator. We get, if we round it off, we get 8.28%. So that's our return on assets for the firm. Specifically now, what is our asset turnover? So that's an overall measure. For our asset productivity, we want to look at asset turnover. So here, we're looking at total assets. Now it'll be in the numerator, right? No, actually, it's still going to be the denominator. We're going to look at sales now over total assets. How much-- how often are we turning over our assets in terms of sales? Producing sales from our assets. So that's going to equal to 14,000 divided by-- that's our sales up here at the top-- divided by our total assets, which is still 11,300. And if we do the calculation there, that ends up being 1.24. So basically, we turn our-- we created sales a little bit more than equal to our assets each year, 1.24. We turn it over a little bit more than once per year. What about our inventory? How fast are we turning that over? So here we want to look at-- in the bottom, we're going to have a good inventory. How quickly are we turning over inventory? And on the top, remember, we're not going to use sales because the inventory is booked at cost of goods sold. So we'll put COGS up here. So we'll draw from COGS up here, which is going to be equal to 11,000 divided by our inventory, which is in the balance sheet down here at 2,800. And if we divide those, we get 3.9, rounding up 3.93. So we turn our inventory over more often than our assets in general, and that's because we have some fixed assets and other things as well. So we would expect to turn the inventory over faster. And whether this is good enough or not depends on what our industry is and what our competition is. But we can get an idea that we roughly turn our inventory over four times a year. Let's move on to the next three, and these are all related to the margin. And we'll start with our gross margin, which will take the gross profit up here and divide by our sales. In fact, all these are going to be divided by sales. We're going to normalize our different levels of income by sales. Let's look down here-- equals 3,000 divided by 14,000, which gives us 21.4%. So roughly 21% of the sales we make comes into gross profit. What about operating profit? So for this one, again, we're going to have sales in the denominator. But our numerator is going to be our operating income, which EBIT is a good indicator-- is the right number to use for operating income. I don't like using EBITDA. I like to do things that includes depreciation and amortization. So EBIT over sales, which is equal to 1,800 divided by the 14,000, which gives us a number 12.9%. So you can see we have a lot of SG&A expenses here that are eating into our profits. Our gross profits, our gross margin, is 21%. By the time we get to the operating margin, we're down to 12.9. What about the bottom line? So now we're looking at net income over sales. And here we have-- pull net income here-- 936 divided by 14,000, and that gives us a number of 6.69%. So you can see, by the time we get to the bottom line, our margin has dropped. Right? Because we have interest and taxes in there to eat away at those profits. So you can see at different levels of the income statement-- and everything in our margins comes from the income statement-- we can see how profitable we are. And again, we might want to compare this with the competitors in our industry, and see how well we're doing. In fact, in general-- so here's some advice about ratio analysis. There aren't any correct values for the ratios. The ratios are meant to give you an indication of what's happening in the firm, but you have to understand them in the context in which the firm is competing. So you may want to look at industry averages overall, or, actually, specific competitors. And see how well you're doing compared to the competitors you want to be stronger than. And in fact, this is why the ratios are useful because the-- many of the ratios are dimensionless. And this means that the turnover doesn't have a dimension with it, it's just a number. A margin doesn't have a number with it. It allows you to compare companies of different size, and then be able to not worry about the size of the company. So one company may have a lot more profits than another, but the dimensionless numbers allow us to be able to compare easily across. The other thing you want to do in looking at ratio analysis is look at things over time. Both within a firm-- how well have their profits been going up, or down, or their turnover? Are they getting better returns? And, are they doing better than the competition over time in achieving of those returns? Because you can look at maybe that there's an economic, a broader economic issue that's causing the industry to not do as well. But, relative to the competitors, are we doing well? So you need to develop a framework of different ratios to think about these different aspects because not one single ratio, like a return on equity or return on assets, doesn't tell you much of what's going on. You break it down into some more specific ones-- we've mentioned a few-- and you may even go further, like I mentioned with sales growth having even more specific ratios, depending on what you're looking for. Because in the end, these ratios don't tell you exactly what's happening, but they give you really good clues that can help you tell an interesting story about the financial performance of a firm.

## DuPont Analysis
In this segment, we're going to discuss a particular kind of financial analysis called DuPont analysis. And I'm sure you're wondering, why is it called DuPont analysis specifically? Well, it comes out of the DuPont company. In fact it comes-- specifically it's a return on investment formula that was developed by a DuPont explosives salesman back in 1914. His name was Donaldson Brown. And he used it in DuPont and then later on he became the CFO at General Motors. But by the time he was deploying it widely at General Motors, it was already known as the DuPont formula. You can see him here as a young DuPont salesman, and later on as a very wily CFO of General Motors. And I would encourage you to read through this paper in the Accounting Historians Journal about the influence of this salesman, as he developed a lot of financial measures. Well his formula is actually pretty simple. Three letters, very much like the theory of relativity, E equals mc squared. You have to know E, m and c stand for. But in our formula, what do r, t, and p stand for? R is the rate of return on the capital invested when you invested capital, return on investment. And it's broken down into two parts: the turnover of invested capital and the percentage of profit on sales. And those, in terms of our thinking of ratio analysis, it's really in essence a combination of two ratios. So writing it in our ratio analysis terminology, we have the return on investment or return on assets here, is net margin times asset turnover, where our net margin is the net income divided by sales, our asset turnover is the sales divided by total assets. And obviously if we multiply them together, sales cancel out and you get net income over total assets, which is your return on assets. So it's a very straightforward and simple formula, but it helps us think about two key drivers of our financial performance. Coming back to our drivers figure from earlier, you can see the operating margin here on the left, which is our net-- net margin is a little different type of margin, but operating margin is the key to that. And asset productivity, thinking about asset turnover as a key measure ratio of looking at that. And this is a trade off of that part of the triangle that we presented earlier. And in fact, it can articulate two kinds of strategies. You can take a profit path toward return on assets or a turnover path, but you end up at the same destination, return on assets. And you can think of different industries that may focus on one or the other. In fact, the industries that have a lot more value added, like manufacturers that create the products and add a lot of the products, love higher margins and may not have as good of turnovers. And the retailers and wholesalers who sell those products may not have as good a margin, so they have to turn over the product, turn over their inventory a lot faster. So there's different paths, but they might end up with the same return on assets. Just different strategies given their role in the supply chain. I want to also introduce another term here: GMROI. It's often pronounced "Jim Roy." And it stands for Gross Margin Return On Inventory investment. It's similar to DuPont, but it's a little more narrow. It's focusing on gross margin, not the net margins, so looking at just sales and cost of goods sold, and what is the gross margin. And then the inventory turnover, not the overall turnover of assets, but the inventory turnover specifically. And you can see when you multiply your gross margin, gross profit over sales, times inventory return, which is sales over inventory, the sales cancel out. You get gross profit over inventory, which is the gross margin return on inventory investment. And it's narrower than DuPont, and it's focused more on evaluating inventory decisions and their impact on profitability. And this will come to play in a lot of supply chains. For example, at retailers specifically, you can think about two different paths here. You think about grocers, grocery stores having very low margins, right? So they have to have high turnover in order to get a good return on that inventory. On the other extreme, you may have jewelry stores that have very high margins, but they want to always be able to make sure they make a sale and have plenty of inventory, so their inventory turnover maybe low. And the net effect is that they may have very similar GMROI even though they have very different strategies of having a profit path or a turnover path. So you can see that playing out in a more narrow aspect in a particular industry. In fact you can even think about, even in the same type of industry like clothing sales, you can think of a Macy's-- in the US we have Macy's, is a very high end retail store will have higher margins, maybe not as fast of a turnover. And you have the other extreme is a T.J. Maxx. It's another retailer but they have much lower margins, lower prices, so they have to turn things over faster. So you can see this trade off, profit path and turnover path across industries. Within an industry of retail, and even within a part of a retail sector, you're having those different paths toward the same type of return on investment. I want to close by talking about the fact that return on equity is actually the focus of most DuPont analysis now. Even though initially when it was used in DuPont it was return on assets, the first two components here. We've now added financial leverages, the third part of this, to lead to return on equity. And you can see here, again with the first two components are the same, net income over sales, sales over total assets. They cross out to give us, put these two together, we get ROA, Return On Assets. But then we go further adding the financial leverage, which has their assets over equity. Then the assets cancel out, and when we get these together we get our return on equity. It brings in a third component, and it looks at the role of taking on debt to be able to drive returns for the equity investor. And so our value driver triangle needs a foundation. You know, when thinking about the value for shareholders, is that financial leverage can be incorporated to really drive value. It's a key component here. But that also can bring in some risks. There's more risk when you take on debt, so thinking about that foundation of leverage and risk. And in general we need to be thinking-- when we're thinking about driving value, we need to think about the risks we have in our supply chain as well in terms of the overall value we're providing to our shareholders. Or the returns we give them, the risks we expose them to, and giving them a good combination for their investment. So that gives you DuPont analysis as a way of looking at different paths towards the same objective of return on assets, or more broadly return on equity. And you can also be more narrow to focus on particular parts, such as gross margin and inventory.

## ROIC
This segment has an obscure title, ROIC. It is an acronym. And I'll leave you in suspense a little bit as to what it stands for. I'm going to motivate this by talking about some overall measures of financial performance, some ratios that are typically used. Return on assets, which is our net income over total assets, and return on equity, which is the net over total equity. And these measures can have some flaws, especially when there's a lot of debt in a firm. So we've got-- I'm going to use a simple example here. We have company D, which refers to debt. They have a lot more debt than company E, which is all equity financed. So they have the same amount of liabilities in equity overall, and in fact, the same number of assets, same amount of assets. And in fact we're keeping the EBIT the same as well. So in terms of their ability to create EBIT based on assets, it's the same. But their ability to create income depends on their structuring because the interest expenses can change the income. So let's do the calculations here and show how this works out. So looking at ROA, we have company D, we have company E. So the ROA for company D is the net income of 60 over the total assets, which was 2,000, which is equal to 3.0%. The return on assets for company E, their net income is 168 divided by same assets, 2,000. That's going to be equal to 8.4%. So better return on assets for company E because they have more net income, lower return on equity. So in this case, we still have the same return for both of these. So 60 here, and 168. The thing that's changing here is the denominator of equity for company D, which has a lot of debt, only has 200 in equity. So that gives us a return on equity of 30%. And for company E, all of that is equity. So that's 2,000. So we already have that, that's equal to 8.4%. So you can see that for the equity-based firm, return on assets and return on equity, if it's all equity financed, is the same: 8.4%. But because of the high leverage of company D, the return on assets tells a very different picture than return on equity. A lot of the return on equity is because of the ability to finance. And with only 200 in equity they can finance and get a lot more assets and create out of the same EBIT. But that's going to be riskier because the debt holders will be paid first. So it's a very different perspective between ROA and ROE, depending on the debt structure of the firm. And when we're managing supply chains, we won't make that decision as to how much debt and equity to take on. But it will affect some measures that we may be using to evaluate our performance, such as return on assets. So this is where ROIC comes in. It stands for Return On Invested Capital. So this is looking at the returns on all capital for investors who are seeking returns. So we're not only going to look at equity. We're also not going to look at just assets purely. We're going to look at specifically what's being invested, where we expect it to get returns. So we're going to look at-- and we're also going to change the income statement. Because of the influence of the taxes, we're going to define something called NOPAT, which will help us deal with the fact that the income statement is influenced by the debt structure. So let's define these two firms in our ROIC ratio. The first one is NOPAT, which stands for Net Operating Profit After Tax. So it's exactly what it sounds like. Whatever's the operating profit after tax. But it specifically doesn't incorporate the effect of interest, because we're taking earnings before interest and taxes, right? But we are going to incorporate the tax rate here. So we're just trying to pull out the effect of the inventory, or the interest expense ability to change the nature of our bottom line net income. So it's basically the earnings as if-- after taxes, if it was all equity financed. We don't consider the interest expense. And we're actually taking out the tax rate here to be able to make it an equal comparison. The invested capital is defined as the interest bearing debt and equity. So anything that we have in debt where we're going to be paying interest on it, and the equity is all the invested capital upon which we're supposed to create a return. So yeah, the sum of all sources of cash on which return must be earned. But for example, we're not going to include accounts payable, which is a source of cash where our suppliers allow us to pay later, so effectively they are giving us financing, because we take ownership of the product before we have to pay for it. But they don't expect us to pay a return on that. So we're taking that out. We may want to subtract the excess cash as well, because the effect of the excess cash can be used to pay off the debt. And so that would reduce the invested capital. So that's something that is a little bit undefined. We will probably not subtract out excess cash in our example, but you may have the need to do that in practice. We also want to look at the book value invested capital rather than the market value, because we want to look at the value that was actually invested by the debt holders and equity holders, the shareholders. So that's the definition of ROIC. Let's give an example here. Here is our definition again. Our NOPAT is our EBIT times 1 minus the tax rate. So let's take an example here off to the right, this company. We have our EBIT is equal to-- so EBIT times 1 minus tax rate. And the tax rate is 40%. It's going to be 1,800 times 1 minus 0.4, which is 1,800 times 0.6, which works out to be 1,080. So that's our NOPAT. What is our invested capital? And here we're going to look at all the interest bearing debt and equity, so we go to the balance sheet and see we have long term debt. We'd have to pay interest on that. We don't use accounts payable because we're not paying interest on that. There's no return expected. So we have long term debt. And then we have stockholders' equity down here. So this is going to be equal to 4,800 plus 5,600, which is equal to 10,900. So our ROIC is equal to 1,080 over 10,400 which is 10.4%. So that's how we would calculate it. We come up with our operating profit after taxes. So we are going to incorporate taxes, but not interest expense and the tax savings based on interest expense in calculating the NOPAT. And then we look at what capital we're looking for return on, and we get a number of 10.4%. There's another term that's similar to this called RONA. And you know, it's similar to ROIC. It's also similar to another term called ROCE or Return On Capital Employed. These are all trying to do the same thing, saying what is the return on the assets that are expected to produce profit, which is very similar to the debt and equity upon which we're supposed to create returns. Here again, we're going to use the same denominator of NOPAT, but we're going to divide by net assets. And those, NOPAT's the same as ROIC. Net assets can be defined a couple of different ways, but what we're trying to do is look at the fixed assets plus any non-cash working capital. Or another way of calculating that is looking at the total assets and subtract out the current liabilities and the cash which are non-cash capital. So let's do this example with the same company using RONA. So we're going to get the same NOPAT as before. Remember that was equal to 1,080. It's our EBIT times 1 minus tax rate. And then our net assets is equal to our property plant and equipment, which is going to be down here. It's our fixed assets. Plus non-cash working capital. And that's going to be defined as our inventory plus our accounts receivable minus accounts payable, because we get financing for that. So that's our working capital definition. So it's plus inventory, plus accounts receivable, minus accounts payable. So that's going to be equal to 5,000 plus 2,800, plus 3,000 in accounts receivable, minus the 900 of accounts payable, which gives us a number of 9,900. Now if we calculate that with the other formula, net assets equals the total assets, which is down here, 11,300, minus current liabilities, which would be this 900 here, minus cash, which is up here. It gives us the same amount of 9,900. And in fact if you calculate this both ways, you should get the same numbers generally. I know that financial statements can be very different for different firms. The accountants may use different terms. But you should roughly get the same net assets either way. So what is our RONA? That's equal to 1,080 over 9,900, which is 10.9%. So you remember, ROIC was 10.4%. So it's a little different. And the difference is actually-- remember we had the-- the NOPAT the same in both. So for this one we had the NOPAT of 1,080. And we had our equity of 5,600 and our debt of 4,800, which gave us a total of 10,400. And that gives us our 10.4%. But notice if took this 10,400, the equity plus the debt, and if we subtracted out the cash, the 500, we would get the 1,080 over 9,900, just like we have for the net assets. So I mentioned before, you may want to subtract out excess cash when doing the ROIC calculation. This is an example why you may want to do that. Because if we did that, we would get the exact same number for RONA as well as ROIC. Now you may feel like, well, don't we have a standard definition for what these overall measures of financial performance should be? It would be nice. Accounting is a practice, the ratio analysis is a practice as well. Your firm will have a way of deciding on which overall performances or measures you're going to be using. But if you want to suggest one, I would suggest ROIC, Return On Invested Capital, as a good overall measure. And let's just see how it plays out with our example from before at the beginning of the segment. Remember we had company D had a very big disparity in return on equity and assets, whereas the equity-only firm had an alignment there. If we did our ROIC calculation on this, we would get-- and this is again, NOPAT over invested capital equals, our NOPAT here is going to be our EBIT for company D, it's going to be EBIT 280 times 1 minus the tax rate, which is 0.4, which will end up being 168 in our numerator. And our invested capital is simply going to be, it's easy to calculate here, debt plus equity is 2,000. 2,000. So that's going to give us a number of 8.4%. And if we do this on the other side, of course. The NOPAT, same EBIT, same tax rate. And we still have the same total liabilities and equity. So we'll get the same numbers on this side. But interestingly, the ROIC would again be in exactly the same, 8.4%. So it's giving you the return as if you were completely fully equity financed, if you are an equity finance only firm. But for a firm with a lot of debt and financial leverage, ROIC gives a truer idea of the performance of the returns on the capital that's being invested, whereas return on assets and return on equity can distort the picture. That's why I think ROIC is a better overall measure of return on the capital that's being entrusted into our firm to create returns. So, sorry for the graphics behind you. But you can see ROIC is a good measure for supply chain performance because it is not confounded by the financing strategies that we don't have control over in supply chain. Financing is going to be determined by the finance department. So it'll show basically the fundamental earning power of the firm, which is really what comes from the operations. And so that's what we would like to focus on in looking at the performance of the firm financially related to our operations in our supply chain management.

## Key Points
Let's wrap up this brief lesson with some key points about analyzing financial performance. Let's go back to the questions posed at the beginning. First of all, how do you analyze financial performance? And we've seen that through a broad set of ratios and ratio analysis is often how it's done. These ratios are based on data from financial statements, primarily income statement and balance sheet. So the math isn't challenging, but the difficulty is defining what's going to be in the numerator and what's in the denominator. And what are you trying to accomplish by looking at these different ratios? And in fact, you should look at several ratios in a context of a framework that allows you to see performance from different perspectives. These different ratios give us clues as to what's going on with financial performance. But you need several, maybe you could think about them as sensors, to see how well your overall firm is moving forward. And we want to use ratios that are dimensionless. And most of the ones in here, margin, turnover, are dimensionless because we can compare with competition. That may be companies of very different size, but we can look at the margins because they eliminate the size of the firm in terms of profitability and look at the pure ability to create profit based on sales or turnover, how much sales can be driven by the assets of the firm. It doesn't matter how big the company is. We can compare. We can also observe trends over time, both in competition and in our own firm. As our firm grows, we can say, are we maintaining the ability to capture good margin on sales? Are we maintaining the ability to get a good turnover of sales depending on the assets we're deploying, even as we get bigger over time? So can look at our firm's performance and see how we're doing on these dimensionless measures over time. And we'll have some homework assignments where you can try to practice some of that type of analysis. We didn't have time to get into that kind of competitive analysis and trend analysis in the lesson itself. How do you measure performance then, is very linked to how you analyze it. The financial metrics are often based on the ratios used in financial analysis. You'll often find things like return on assets, return on equity, hopefully return on invested capital. But there are often metrics in a firm that are based on the things that an analyst, a financial analyst, will use to analyze the firm. However, inside the firm you have different information than what's available in the financial accounting books, and managerial decisions may require that different information. So financial metrics based on income statement and balance sheet won't be sufficient to make the decisions. You may need managerial accounting or specific types of accounting like activity-based costing to give you the information you need in order to make decisions. And in fact, these financial metrics are only part of a bigger picture of information you're going to need to monitor the performance of your supply chain. But the financial metrics are important. And we should make sure that we're thinking about the analysis that aligns with the different drivers of shareholder value. You should keep financial metrics on your radar screen that are aligned with revenue growth, operating margin, and asset productivity. Those are the key things that the supply chain will do to create value for shareholders, who won't have as much influence on the financial leverage. We will have some ability to assess the risk of some of our strategies, but we're really at the core looking at this triangle up here: revenue growth, operating margin, and asset productivity. But we want to make sure we incorporate financial metrics in thinking about our performance and also guiding our strategy. This triangle can be helpful in saying, should we move more of our focus to revenue growth, or should we move to more margin, or should we stay more into asset productivity? You can position yourself and your goals relative to these financial measures to help set your supply chain strategy. Some metrics are better than others. Don't take every metric that's out there as one that you should incorporate. And for example, I think ROIC is a much better metric than return on assets and return on equity. That return on invested capital gives you a clearer perspective on how your firm is generating returns on the capital that's being deployed where the returns are expected. And the bottom line is, supply chain executives should definitely monitor a balanced set of financial metrics that align with the investors' interests but also employee bonuses. So in a balanced scorecard kind of a concept, financial metrics are definitely an important part of it. We shouldn't limit ourselves to only the metrics that look at supply chain performance and the processes that we're monitoring more closely, although those are very important to have on your balanced scorecard. But always include some financial metrics that think about the investors. And employee bonuses a lot of times are linked to financial performance, so make sure that you're incorporating the employee bonus, the financial metrics that will drive employee bonuses and drive the incentives such that they will try to create value in the best way through supply chain management by looking at revenue growth, operating margin, and asset productivity. As always, use the practice problems to learn more. Again, we'll give you some opportunities to do some more of this kind of analysis and even compare firms. Use the discussion for questions, comments, and suggestions. But hopefully this very brief lesson has given you a bit of a picture of how to analyze the performance of your supply chain, and you'll use this information going forward to design better supply chains and manage them for success into the future. Good luck in creating your piles of cash inside your firm.
