# week03 lesson1 production planning fixed horizon

(SC2x video lecture transcript)

## Introduction
In this lesson, we're going to discuss how information flow can be used within a firm. Specifically, we're going to look at the coordination and planning of production. And that ties directly into the idea of fixed planning horizon problems. So the overarching question we're trying to answer is, how should we use information within our firm to coordinate the different activities of all the different players in the supply chain, from the vendors up to the customers, but including the operations within our own firm? So let me go back to that macro view- Macro process view we've talked about in the past, where we've got the suppliers, the firm itself, and the customer. And you can think of what the firm does in three big buckets. There are many ways you can cut this up. But this is one way that I think is useful. And so you've got the sourcing. You've got the things that are internal within the company. And then, you've got the customer-facing. So supplier or vendor management, customer demand management, and internal production management. And what we're going to focus on in this lesson is, we're really going to focus in here, on the internal production management. How do you coordinate your production schedule? And we'll talk about other sides, how this impacts and influences and works with the supplier as well as the customer, in later lessons. So let's put this into perspective. In a firm you can break things down again. Another way, another perspective, is the procurement-- dealing with the vendors, the marketing side-- dealing with the customers, and production in the middle-- making those products that can then be sold downstream to the customers. You can think of information or planning coming from the market-- it's demand-driven up the stream. And then back down the stream will be the inventory deployment. Now, between these three big buckets-- marketing, production, and procurement-- there are other activities. So you can think of the marriage between production and marketing as that physical distribution. You can think of the connection between procurement and production itself as materials management. You'll sometimes hear these terms used frequently within firms. But what we have here is a linking connection between the vendors and the customers. So what systems do we use to make this whole process work? How do we communicate the information? Well, there's three main systems. In the middle is this master production schedule. We'll talk a lot about that in this lesson. This is the thing that determines how much you're going to build, what items and when. It's like the whole production plan for your firm. Now, this interfaces with two different systems. Going upstream, you've got the MRP, or Material Requirements Planning. This helps me determine all the components that go within a product, and how to schedule them, and how to ripple that schedule back. Conversely, almost symmetrical, is the DRP-- the Distribution Requirements Planning system. And this helps me determine how does my product flow to all my customers. So these are the three main systems that we're going to talk about today in today's lesson. So how do they fit together? You can think of it this way. The sales and marketing plan comes in. And that helps influence what we do, how we're going to distribute. That information goes into the master planning system that determines when, how much, and what products we're going to manufacture. That ripples back to the MRP system that lets my vendors know when they need to provide things, so then I can produce them according to my schedule, and then distribute them out. So we're going to focus on in this lesson is really this MPS system. So how do I do my master production scheduling? Now, we'll talk later about how I get those numbers. And this really comes in through a process called the Sales and Operations Planning, or S&OP. We'll talk about that in a later lesson. We should have already talked, you should be familiar with, some of the things I can do for purchasing, how I can coordinate with my procurement side, the purchasing side. And later on, we'll talk a little bit more about how I can collaborate here with my customers. So there's a lot of interaction. The communication goes both ways-- both from the customers up and also from the vendors down. But like I said, in this lesson, we're focusing mainly on this master production schedule.

## Master Production Schedule
So let's talk about the master production schedule. So what is the master production schedule? Well, a couple points to help you understand exactly where it fits in to the whole process-- the MPS is the basic communication tool between the market that you're trying to serve and the manufacturing plan and capabilities that you control. It's a statement of the production, not of the demand. It is not a forecast. It actually takes as an input the forecasted demand. And it tries to translate that into a manufacturing plan that determines, what do I produce when, and in what quantities? Now, the reason why it is not demand-- you can think of it for two main reasons. First, if have a peak demand, say, at the end of the year, I will probably have to start producing things way ahead of time. So you can think that production might lead or lag the actual demand. Secondly, it might be in very different quantities. My demand is probably going to be in eaches or small lots. But my production, due to economies of scale and other things, might be in bigger batches. So my production will not match my demand. It's when I want to produce things to be able to meet the demand. It also does some other things. It lets me let sales know when I can promise product-- available to promise. That's something that's really key. And we'll talk about that in a later lesson. But you can think of it as tying together production and sales. It's a statement of the planned future output of the firm itself. Now, it differs a little bit by the manufacturing strategy that your firm has or the product line that you're looking at. And we've talked before about four basic strategies here. The first is engineer to order where I'm making something one of a kind, and when the order comes, not only do I have to procure the materials and manufacture it, assemble it, and deliver it, I have to design it so it's a one of a kind product-- very long delivery lead time. Then you can think of make to order. And here, I don't start making the product until I get the order. But I can start getting some of the raw materials that I know I'll be using ahead of time. What type of materials will I need here? Well, I'll have mainly raw materials that go into the manufacture of many products. For assemble to order, it moves it down a little closer. And so the delivery time is a little shorter. Because I can make components and other WIP, Work In Process. So these are subcomponents, assemblies, things that I will then assemble into final customized product. And finally you've got make to stock. And what we have here is I make things to a forecast and then deliver it to the market. So the inventory I will have here is mainly going to be finished goods. A couple points-- first, look, as I go from Engineer to Order down to Make to Stock, my delivery lead time shrinks dramatically. So that's good for satisfying demand. Now, the challenge is as I move from engineer to order, where there's essentially zero order there, because I don't know what I need until I finish designing it is I move down to raw materials to work in process to finished goods, they are harder and harder to forecast. Because for finished goods, it's for an individual end item. For WIP, it probably goes to multiple items. So I'm aggregating-- a little easier to forecast, raw materials even more so. So while my delivery lead times shrinks, the type of inventory that I'm planning gets much harder to forecast. Also, the thing that I'm planning in my MPS changes. From make to stock, because this is probably going to a consumer, I'm going to be making my production plan based on my finished goods. For assemble to order or things going more business to business, if you're selling to another industry, then you're probably going to be forecasting and planning some of your components, some of your assemblies. So it differs, based on the strategy that you have, what you're going to actually be planning for in your master production schedule. How do we manage it? Well, we use something called a time phased record, pretty straightforward. It's simply telling me over a period of time-- and in this example, there are six time periods. Let's call them monthly buckets. That's fairly standard-- how much my forecast is, what I'm planning to produce each period, and what I have available for my balance, what inventory I have on hand. So for this example, I've got 30 units in time zero, which is now. It's a current time. And then here in this first row, you can see what the forecasted demand is by period. And again, this is not my forecast. This is an input to the MPS. Then what I try to determine is the production plan. How much will I make in time period one, two, three, four, and so on. Now, based on that, that'll determine how much inventory I have. Because this should look familiar. It's an inventory balance equation. We've talked about this before. It's essentially a conservation of flow. So the amount of inventory I have in this time period, time period one, is going to be equal to what I had the time period before plus whatever I produce in that time period minus whatever I forecasted. Because I assume I'm taking my inventory and satisfying that demand. So all that it's telling me is that inventory has to go somewhere. It has to come from somewhere. And so it accounts for any place it can come from and go to. Now, what we want to do is come up with a production strategy to satisfy this demand. And you can see there's probably multiple ways to do this. There are two classic strategies-- level and chase. Let's talk about each of them. For level, the objective, as you would think by its name, is to keep the production level, the manufacturing, stable and level throughout the time period. How do I figure that out? Well, I look at the sum of the forecasted demand, subtract out my inventory at time zero when I start, divided by the number of periods. So in my simple example, if I look at my demand, it sums up to 90. And so I have six periods. I produced 15 each. That's shown in this chart here in this nice, stable red line. And so what does this result in? Well, if you look at time period one, I'm producing more than I need. So my inventory level is going up actually. So the inventory will not necessarily match exactly what my demand is. Because I'm producing it ahead of time in order to keep my production level. You can see the blue line here is simply the forecast. And the green line on this chart is showing my projected available balance or my inventory on hand. So what are the pros here? Well, as the name implies, smooth and stable production operations. I'm not suddenly adding capacity, taking it off. I'm not switching things. I'm minimizing the need for extra production capacity. I'm not firing people and rehiring them during slow periods. So that's a definite pro. Negatives, some cons? It can lead to excessive inventory. We saw this in periods zero, one, and two where I was producing way more than the demand that I needed, so I built up excessive inventory. Conversely, this can result in shortages during peak demand periods if I'm keeping my production level. So that's one strategy. The second strategy is chase. And for this, I want to match my production level to the demand each period. And so my production in time t is going to equal the forecast given that I hit some level of demand. Call that safety stock. So in my example, I want to make sure that I have at least five units on hand for each period. Well, I'm starting with 30. So what's going to happen the first two periods? I'm producing nothing. Because I want to catch up. I want to get it down so that my inventory level stays at five. That's that green line here. What does that mean for production? I'm producing nothing the first two periods. Then for period three, I produce what they demand, period four, five, and six the same thing. So as of period three, I'm chasing, I'm staying right with my forecasted demand. But prior to that, I was producing nothing for the first two time periods. What are the pros? Well, inventory is kept to a minimum. That's what I'm really guiding, my production plan. And the product is only made when required. So I'm minimizing my obsolescence. Some negatives-- big, wild swings in labor and production needs. I produced nothing for two months. So think in practical terms, what do I do? Do I lay the people off? Do I put them on furlough? Do I let the machines just lay idle? So it's kind of a challenge. You have some cons there. It requires the firm to have capacity equal to demand at peak. And the utilization of equipment will be very inconsistent. This is exactly what we saw. So we saw these two production strategies, level and chase. And these are pure strategies. Very rarely will a company just do one or the other. In fact, what typically happens is they follow some kind of hybrid strategy. And one hybrid strategy of this is using outsourcing or subcontracting. So let's say that my demand looks something like this. I know it's going to have these humps and these peaks and valleys. Well, what I might want to do is say, you know what? For my production plan, I will produce to this level. So I'll have a level strategy here. And then I will outsource these peaks. So the variable part I will outsource. And I'll outsource this to a contract manufacturer or some other source so I can keep my facilities level. And then I have this other outsourced facility to handle the variability. That's one strategy. And then another strategy we can do, when you make your production plan, is to make some cost trade-offs. Because remember, all we did before was say, either we produce level, or I match the forecasted demand. We know there's going to be trade-offs when you produce. Because there are fixed costs and variable costs. So what we want to do is figure, what are the optimal trade-offs? And we're going to look at lot sizing. And this is where we get into that fixed planning horizon. So that's what we're going to do next. We're going to look at different ways to solve this fixed planning horizon problem.

## Fixed Planning Horizon
Now let's talk about the fixed planning horizon problem. What we're trying to do is simply determine how much and when to produce or order different items. So if I look at the assumptions that I have for the inventory problem-- this is similar to other inventory models that we looked at from economic order quantity to news vendor problems-- there's certain assumptions. And what are the assumptions that are different here for the fixed planning horizon problem? Well, there are three that make it different from the traditional economic order quantity problem. The first is demand is variable. It's no longer constant. Remember in EOQ, or Economic Order Quantity, I assume that over time, if this is time, that the demand was fairly stable. Now I'm going to assume that it changes over time. So every time period, I might have a different demand. However, it's known. It's not random. So it's not like the news vendor or some of the other inventory policies we looked at. I know these and this is what I'm planning to. This is in my demand forecast. So I know for each time period how much I'm supposed to produce. Now, what else makes it different is it's a finite time period. Remember for EOQ, I'm looking for a steady state inventory policy because I assume that that condition is going to go on forever. Here, I'm planning exactly for the demand that's been forecasted for me. So at the end of this time period, I should have no inventory left, or if I have inventory left over, it's being planned for future demand. So I have a fixed or finite time period. That's why it's called the fixed planning horizon. So how are we going to talk about this? We're going to use a very simple example called the Queenstown Gyroscopes example. So your company, Queenstown Gyroscopes, just received a one-year contract with the Australian Satellite Systems Company to provide 2,000 of your special Kiwi-99 gyroscopes. And that's what this is. This is your Kiwi-99. So you have to provide 2,000 of them. And they want them at a certain time because typically, if I'm going into a system, I'm providing my product to another manufacturer, then they're not going to want them all at once. They want them spread out to match their production schedule. So in this case, month one, they want 200. And you can see this in both the chart and the table. Month two, they want 150. Month three, they want 100, and so on. So I have this schedule that I have to meet. And the question we're trying to figure out is, how much should I make? How should I make in time period one, two, three, four, whatever? So I need to have some other costs. There's a set-up cost. Any time I make any number, it's going to cost me $500 per run. Think of this as a transactional cost, an order set-up cost. Then I need to know the cost per gyroscope, and that's $50 per item. Now I might sell them to the Australians at a very different price, but this is the cost to make. We need that to determine the holding cost. So my holding charge, I'm assuming 24% per year. And so I picked that number so the math gets easy because if I look at what this means, I have 0.24 dollar per dollar per year. I'm going to multiply that by the cost of gyroscope, which is $50 per item. And I'm going to divide that by 12. I assume there are 12 months in a year. And so what happens? Years cancel out. Dollars cancel out. So what am I ending up with? I'm ending up with $1.00 per item per month. So it just makes it easy. So every extra gyroscope I have that is not going up to meet demand, I pay $1 per each month that I hold it. Now, I need some other information. Let me clean that up. And this mainly is the policy for inventory. I assume that if you manufacture something in a period, it's ready for use in that period. So if you say I'm going to make 50 in time period three, those can be used to satisfy demand in period three. We also assume that gyroscopes produced in a period, if they're consumed in that same period, that same month, then they don't have any holding costs. But let's say in period four, I produce 100 and 20 of them are satisfying demand, I pay interest or holding cost on the 80 that I carry over to the next month. And we'll go over this in more detail. So my objective is find the lowest cost production plan for these gyroscopes for the 12 month contract. And we're going to solve this a bunch of different ways. Three main categories-- we're going to look at some simple heuristics, then we're going to look at some specialized heuristics. I'm going to focus in on this Silver-Meal algorithm, which is very popular. And then we'll look at two optimal methods. So we're going to solve the same problem about six different ways.

## Simple Heuristics for FPH
So let's dive into solving the fixed planning horizon problem. And our first set of algorithms are going to be simple heuristics. So we're going to specifically look at four different heuristics-- the one-time run or one-time buy heuristic, the lot for lot or chase heuristic, fixed EOQ, or fixed order quantity, and periodic order quantity, or POQ. So these are all very simple approaches, but we'll do these to illustrate some concepts. So let's start with a one-time run. So what this is saying, I need 2,000 over the course of a year, produce them all at once. So in January or month one, I produced all 2,000 of them. So what I show up here in red is the production for each month. So I'm going to produce 2,000, so what's going to happen? Well, the rest of the year, I produce none. And so what does this mean for inventory? Well, I'm going to have a ton of inventory up front that I'm going to deplete over time, but I'm going to have a lot of it for the first many months of the year. So this translates, if I made 2,000 units in month one, I only use 200, so I'm charged for inventory on hand the remaining 1,800. 2,000 minus 200 forecast leaves me 1,800. I get charged $1 a month for each one that I hold, so my holding cost for that month will be $1,800. Now, I have a setup cost as well because I did a production run of $500. So what is my total cost? $13,100 in inventory holding costs, $500 for the setup cost gives me a total cost of $13,600. All right. So that's one simple heuristic. It's about as simple as you can get. Make it all now. And so what am I paying for? Well, I'm paying for holding a lot over a long period of time, but the benefit, I only have one setup cost. OK, let's look at the next simple heuristic, lot for lot, and this is also called chase. So the plan is, every month, I manufacture what is forecasted. So in period one, they forecast 200, I make 200. In period two, they forecast 150, I make 150. So this is my production plan. I make a little bit each month. What does that mean for costs? Well, the beautiful thing is, I have no inventory holding cost because as soon as I make it, I ship it out to Australia. What's the downside? I have a setup cost every single period because I'm doing a separate run every time. What's my total cost? Well, it's going to be 12 of these setup costs for $6,000. And you can't really see the production in the forecast, but they're right on top of each other. There's a little blue diamond behind each one of these. And it's just like the chase process or strategy we talked about for the MPS. I'm producing exactly what's needed each time period. So that's another simple heuristic. And we'll compare and contrast these at the end. Now let's look at some that are a little more sophisticated. And so we might want to say, well, why not order an economic order quantity? Why not go through and calculate that? And we remember that Q* is simply equal to the square root of 2 times the setup cost times the demand over the cost of excess. And if you do that, it comes out close to 400 units for your Q* if you round it up. So now what my policy is, I'm going to order 400 units when it makes sense, when my demand is greater than my inventory on hand for that period. So for period one, I'm going to produce 400 because my inventory on hand was less than what I needed to satisfy it. So that means I'll produce 400, 200 will go to satisfy demand, which means I'm left with 200. Now, the next time period, I need 150. Well, I've got 200, so I don't need to produce any. And so after I send out the 150, I'll be left with 50. Now, because of my production plan, I need 100 in time period three. I only have 50 at the end of time period two. I'm going to have to do another production run. How much do I do? I order Q, 400. So then you can see how long that lasts. And then the next time when my inventory on hand for a period t minus 1 is less than my demand in t, then I know I need to do a production run. So the big thing here is that my Q, how much I produce, is stable. It's 400 every time. What changes? The time between the runs changes. So I keep the quantity stable, but my time varies. And you can see I will produce 400 in time period one. In time period three, I'll produce another 400. And then I'll produce it again in time period 8, 10, and 11. And you can see what this does. I have a little bit of holding cost. And you look at what's being carried over, about $1,900. Setup costs, I have one, two, three, four, five runs for 2,500, so my total cost here would be $4,400. Now just like you think about keeping the quantity the same, I can think about another simple heuristic in that instead of keeping the Q the same, I let the T stay the same. Remember what T is? T is equal to the quantity-- so Q* over the annual demand. And so if you do this, it comes out to right about three months. So this says you should order every three months. So my T is stable. I'm going to do a production run once a quarter, every three months, which means I'm going to do four over the course of a year. What changes? My Q. So how much do I produce in this first quarter run? Well, it's going to be equal to how much is demanded. So 200, 350, 450, so I produce 450. I look for periods four through six, and I need 200. Seven through nine, I need 550, and so forth. So what you do here is I keep my t, my time between runs, constant, but my Q changes. So it's just another heuristic, a simple way of doing this. What do you end up with? Holding cost of about $2,000 and setup cost of about $2,000 because you have four production runs for a total cost of $4,000. So these are four very simple heuristics. You could probably come up with these on your own. Make it all at once. Make it only when you need it. Make a certain economic order quantity that's making the trade-off so that you keep the Q constant, but change the timing. Periodic order quantity-- keep the t constant, but you keep the quantity changing. So we can compare and contrast some of these. And we've talked about the inventory costs, the setup costs, and the total cost for all of them. We can also look at what the average monthly inventory on hand is. And this is simply the total inventory-- and that's for this. Remember, this is $1 per item per month, so I know that I have 13,100 item months in storage there. Divide that by 12. And that gives me my average monthly inventory on hand. And as you would expect, the worst one is the one-time run, where I have 1,000 units on hand on average and the best is that lot for lot where I have nothing because I only produce what I use each period. And you can see the other heuristics have differing numbers, 158, 166. They're not that different. But then we can look at something called inventory turns. Now, you've probably seen this in terms of financial statements where it's the cost of goods sold over a time period divided by the inventory at a point in time. When you look at units like this, it's really the demand over the course of the time period, the year, divided by the average inventory on hand. So in this case, it'd be 2,000; which is the total demand, divided by my inventory on hand that I have for each of these strategies. So turns, the higher the number is, means I'm turning my inventory faster. It's moving faster. It has a higher velocity, generally, a good thing. So which one has the best? Well, lot for lot. It's infinite because I have no inventory on hand. Something over 0 pretty much goes to infinity. But for some of the other systems, you can see that the FOQ and the POQ tend to have much faster turns than the one-time run because this is saying that the product turns maybe 1.8 times on average over the course of a year. Very slow. Because as things sit around, we know this, that inventory, it's best when it's moving. Because if it just hangs out, it gets damaged, it becomes obsolete, it gets stolen. All those bad things happen. So what are some pros for these different techniques? Well, they're very fast. You saw how quickly we could do these. They're just simple things to implement and they're very, very quick. The negatives? We have no guarantee of how close they are to optimality or their proximity to optimality. It's a single dimension too. They tend to either favor-- you know, this one favored setup costs. This one's obviously favored inventory. So they're not really looking holistically. But these are four very simple heuristic approaches.

## Specialized Heuristics for FPH
So let's talk about specialized heuristics for the fixed planning horizon problem. So we're going to talk about three. And we're really going to focus in on one. I'm going to focus in on the silver meal heuristic. It's also called the least cost period heuristic. And that will become obvious in a second why we call it that. But there are two other ones-- least unit cost and part period balancing-- which I'm not going to go over in detail. But they're very similar. All three are very similar in that they're all myopic heuristics. When you say something is myopic, that means it's very shortsighted. It's making a decision based on information right next to it, very small amounts of information. It's not considering the whole amount of information that you have at hand. It's making decisions based on a very narrow scope. And we'll see why that matters in a few minutes. But let's focus in on the silver meal heuristic. So the basic idea is all we're trying to do is say, OK, should I make enough in this period, in this month, to cover just this month, or should I cover the next month, too? And if I cover that one, should I cover the next month in addition? So it's making the decision, should I throw another month's forecasted demand into the current production run? The acceptance criteria here is that it looks at the total relevant cost per unit time. And remember, the total relevant cost here is simply the ordering cost or the setup cost plus the inventory holding cost. And I divide that by the number of periods that I'm covering. So we're going to keep adding in more demand, more forecasted demand periods, into my production run until the total relevant cost per unit time starts increasing. That's the whole idea behind the heuristic. So the algorithm-- and it's very precise. Because I want you to have the experience of stepping through an algorithm. We're going to start at time period one. And then we're going to set this increment n equals 0. n is simply going to be the number of time periods that I'm including in my production run. So in step three, I'm going to find my total relevant cost per unit time for period one. Then I'm going to increment my n. And then I'm going to find the total relevant cost per unit time if I produce periods one and two at the same time. Then if that total relevant cost is going down compared to the previous one, then I'm going to go to step seven, which tells me go to step four, which means, OK, set n equal to one more. See if you can throw time period three's demand into the current production run. You keep doing this until the total relevant cost of t plus n is greater than my previous total relevant cost per unit time. If that's the case, then this tells you, I'm done with that production run. Let's close it and now move to the next planned run. So talking about a heuristic or an algorithm in abstract is a little tough. So let's apply it. So I'm applying it to the gyroscope problem. And we have the 12 months of demand here that we have to satisfy. And I have the units demanded each time-- 200 in period one, 150 in period two, and so on. And I put the heuristic up in the top right corner so you can follow along. And I'm going to go kind of quickly. But you can always pause this and make sure you can do this. You should be able to understand an algorithm so that you can go by yourself step by step with pencil and paper. So we start t is 1. And that's the first column. n is 0 and that's the second column. So then I go to step three and find the total relevant cost per unit time in period one. So what if I produce enough in period one for period one? What does that mean? Well, I have a setup cost of $500. And I have no inventory holding cost. Because I'm going to use all the product that I produce. And I don't get charged holding cost unless it's kept over for an additional month. OK, now I go to step four. I increment my n to be 1 now, 0 plus 1. And so now I find my total relevant cost per unit time for producing enough in period one to cover the demand in period one and two. So what would that be? Setup cost of $500 plus 150 units kept one month extra to satisfy the demand in period two. I divide that by 2, and I get $325. Now I go to step six. Is the total relevant cost per unit time in period two greater than that in period one? No, so I go to step seven, which says, go to step four, which means I increment: n is now equal to 2. So now I want to see, should I include period one, two, and three in what I've produced in time period one? Should I produce enough for those three periods? If I did that, what would my total relevant cost per unit time be? Well, I've got my $500 setup cost. And I have to keep 150 units for one month for period two. And I have to keep 100 units two months to take care of period three. Sum that up, divide by 3, I get $283. Now I'm at step six. And I look, is the total relevant cost in time period three greater than that in time period two? No. I go to step seven, which then takes me to step four. I increment n to n plus 1. So now I'm trying to determine, should I produce enough for time period four as well? What's the total relevant cost? $500 for the setup cost for time period one plus my inventory holding cost-- 150 units for one month for time period two plus 100 units for two months for time period three, 50 units three months for time period four. Sum that up, divide by 4, you get $250. I'm at step six now. Is $250 greater than $283? No. I go to step seven, go to step four. See how this works? It gets pretty repetitive. This is why we have computers do this, and we don't do this by hand too often. Now I'm trying to determine, do I want to produce enough for periods one through five from period one's production run? What's the cost? $500 for that one-time setup plus the inventory holding cost for periods two, three, four, and five. And you see, for example, for the 50 units demanded in period five, I'm holding them for four months. So I'm getting charged for each one of those months. What's my total relevant cost per unit time? $240. I'm at step six. Is $240 greater than $250? No. So I go to step seven, it takes me to step four. Now I'm trying to see, should I produce enough for month six as well? And you look at the total relevant cost-- again, one time setup plus inventory holding cost for periods two, three, four, five, and six. Sum that up, divide by 6-- because I'm covering six periods. I get $283. Now, is $283 greater than $240? Yes. So what does this mean? That means I want to produce enough up to here. So I'm going to make 550. And I'm going to produce that in period one to cover up through period five. So I'm making 550 units in month one. Now, in step 6a, that told me to make to 550 units. Step 6b says, OK, my t is 1. I'm going to add n to it-- 5. So now I want to find out, how much do I produce in month six? Because I've already taken care of all the demand for months one to five. So now I go to step two. And what does that do? That sets my n back to 0. So now I've got my t is 6, my n is 0. And I start all over again, except I'm trying to figure out, sitting in month six, what does this mean? How much do I produce? If I produce just enough for month six, what are my costs? $500 setup cost and no inventory holding. So then I go to step four. What is n? Increment by one and say, well, what if I increase, and I want to produce for period six and seven? Then in that case, I have my setup cost of $500 plus 150, because that's the amount in period seven that's demanded that I have to keep for an extra month. Divide that by 2, because I'm covering two months. And that gets $325. Is $325 greater than $500? No. So I go to step seven, which takes me to step four. And now I want to increase my n. So my n is 2. And now I'm trying to see, do I want to include the demand for period six, seven, and eight in my production run in month six? And so on and so on. You see here that this turns for month eight, that that is indeed greater than $325. So I cut it off. And I'm going to produce 250 units in month six. And now I want to figure out, how much do I want to produce in month eight? And so it goes on. And so I did this all out. And you can look at this by hand to make sure that what you do by paper matches what I have, and should have that you do a production run in month six, in month eight, and as you go forward in month 10, and then finally in month 12. So you end up with a production plan. And all you're doing-- it's pretty simple. The bookkeeping is complicated when you go through an algorithm by hand. But all you're doing is saying, should I include next period's demand in this production run or not? If so, then I try-- well, should I do the next one? It's making that myopic decision month by month, period by period. So at the end of the day, you end up with this production plan. My inventory holding cost will be about $1,350. Setup cost, since I have five different production runs, is about $2,500. It gives me a total cost of $3,850. And you can see when the production is. And this matches what I just transcribed from doing the heuristic. So how does this compare? So I have my simple heuristics up here, the first four rows, and then the silver meal. It looks like the silver meal is the least expensive one. It doesn't always happen that way. But it generally produces better results. The silver meal algorithm tends to produce better results than these very simple heuristics. And as you would expect, that means a lower average inventory on hand. And the inventory turns are higher. Remember, a higher turn ratio is better. Because it means the product is moving at a faster velocity. Some of the cons, though-- there's no guarantee of optimality, or my proximity to optimality. So for this, it doesn't guarantee. It's still a heuristic. Remember, a heuristic is just a rule of thumb. It doesn't guarantee optimality. Now, I talked about the other specialized heuristics, the least unit cost and part period balance. And they're very similar to the approach that we just did, except the criteria is different. For silver meal, our criteria of whether to add the next month in the production run or not was whether the total relevant cost per unit time went down. For the least unit cost heuristic, the criteria is, does the total relevant cost per item go down? So instead of dividing by number of time periods, it divides by the number of items produced. So it's the same kind of approach. It's a myopic approach. And you're deciding period by period whether to include it in your run. And finally, the part period balance-- same approach. I look month by month. And my criteria is, if I add the next period's demand into my run, does the inventory holding cost equal my order setup cost? Because remember, think back to economic order quantity/ when your holding cost matched your order setup cost, then that's the point of optimality. So it uses that to guide its heuristic. But all three of those algorithms follow the same approach in that they're myopic, and they're making their decision period by period. But we'll learn, it sounds like a bad thing. But it isn't necessarily a bad thing.

## Optimal Methods - Wagner-Whitin
So now let's look at optimal methods for solving the fixed planning horizon problem. We're going to look at two methods that are optimal-- the Wagner-Whitin algorithm, and then the mixed integer linear program. In this segment, we're going to focus in on Wagner-Whitin. So essentially, Wagner-Whitin is a dynamic programming model. It guarantees to find the optimal solution of the sum of the set of costs and the inventory holding costs. It rests upon two main properties or principles. The first is that the zero inventory ordering property exists. It's a fine point. But essentially, it's saying that you only order when there's no inventory on hand. And it really follows from the conditions that replenishments arrive at the start of the period, shortages aren't allowed, and demand is deterministic. You don't have to dwell too much on it. The second one is an interesting concept, though-- that there's an upper limit on the holding time for demand. And what this is saying is that based on the demand for a period, if I look at the holding cost, the cost per period, and the setup cost, there's probably a period where it doesn't make sense to make it in advance. And that point is where the demand is greater than the order cost or the setup cost times the monthly holding cost. So in our example, if you look at the order cost or the setup cost times the holding cost, it's 500 units. Because c_t is $500 per run. And c_e is $1 per item per month. So if I have a demand in a period for 501 items, let's say, does it ever make sense for me to make that ahead of time? No. It only makes sense if it's less than 500. Because if I had an order for 501, I should make it in that time period. Because I've got that fixed order cost of $500, which I'll be paying for. If I make it in advance period, I'll pay for that in holding cost. So it just puts an upper limit on how much I'd be willing to make ahead of time. Anyway, let's look at the algorithm. And I won't go into as much detail as I did for the silver meal. It's a pretty simple algorithm. And like I said, it's a forward and backward type algorithm. We start at time t. We find the cost for ordering just enough to satisfy demand in that period. And then we look backwards. We say, OK, are there any other orders that I can piggyback on, that I can add my new demand onto an existing order? That's step three. In step four, I look at all my options, and I pick the lowest one. And then I keep going. I go to the next time period, next time period, next time period. So this is the forward part of the algorithm. Then, once I've hit all the time periods, I start at the last one. And I work backwards. I say, OK, for each time period starting with the last one, find the optimal way of getting to that point. And I roll my way backwards. So let's apply it. So I've got the same problem here. And I've got my algorithm up in the top right so you can follow along. And I'm just going to do the first three time periods to give you an idea. And then we'll go through. So for time period one, what are my options? Really, I only have one option. I demand 200 units. I can make 200 units in time period one. What would my cost be? Well, it's just the setup cost-- 500. So that's pretty easy. So now I go to the next time period. In time period two, I actually have two options. First, I could make enough in time period one for both time periods one and two. And what would the total cost there be? Well, there's the setup of 500 plus 150 units I'm going to keep for one extra month to satisfy the demand in time period two. That would be $650. Now, the other option is I take whatever the best plan for satisfying demand in period one is, whatever that was-- and in this case there was only one option. And then I decide to make enough, do another run in time period two. So what would my cost be? Whatever my lowest cost was to satisfy the demand in time period one, which happens to be $500, plus what it would cost to do a new run in time period two just for the demand in time period two. It's another setup cost of $500. So that will be $1,000. Now, if I look at those two options, which is the cheapest one? Option one-- $650. OK, now go to time period three. And so now I've got three options here. The first one is I make enough in time period one to cover the demand in time periods one, two, and three. My total cost would be the setup cost in time period one, which is $500, plus 150 units held for one month, plus 100 units held for two months for that demand in period three. That cost would be $850. And then my second option is I take the best period plan, whatever that satisfies the demand in period one. But then I do a production run in period two that covers demand in period two and three. What would that be? Well, it's the setup cost for period one plan. What's the best plan there? It's $500. In plan two, if I make enough in the period two, that's another setup cost. Plus I'm keeping the demand for period three one month. So I have 1 times 100. That total cost is $1,100. I've got a third option that I can do. I take the best that period two plan. So this means the cheapest I can produce the demand for period one and two is $650. That's this. And then I add in, make enough in period three for period three. That would just incur another setup cost-- no holding cost, since I'm going to consume it all in that period. If you look at those three options, you see the cheapest option is the first one at $850. So I'd go through for each of the different periods this same approach. And you'd end up with this. This essentially tells me option one in period one, where I make a new production run. So this, for example, this $650, means I'm producing enough in period one for period one and two. This one, $1,300, says, I'm producing enough in period five, four, and three for a run that's done in period three. So this is what you end up with when you go forward. And so you tabulate this whole table. Now let's look at it for a second. Because some of this should look familiar. If you look at this top line, what is that top row? That top row is essentially the one time buy. It's saying, I'm producing everything in period one. And this is what the total cost is going to be. That should look very familiar to you. It's essentially saying the heuristic where you buy everything at one point in time. OK, so now we've done steps one through four. Step five is I start at period n, which is 12. And I work backwards. So I look at time period 12. And what's the lowest cost solution? It's this $3,750. So this is saying that the cheapest solution to get to time period 12 for a total cost of $3,750, I'm producing enough for time period 12 and 11 in a run on month 11. Then I want to say, OK, well how do I get to month 10? Because I've taken care of the demand for months 11 and 12. So I look for the cheapest one. And it looks like it's this one, $3,000. And so what does that mean? I want to produce enough for weeks 10 and nine in a run in week nine. Keep rolling backwards to week eight-- what's the cheapest one there? It looks like it's this one, order six. So this means I produce enough for week eight, seven, and six in a run in month six. Keep going through and look at month five-- what's the cheapest one? Well, it's going to be order one. So what's that saying? I produce enough to satisfy demand in period five, four, three, two, and one in a run done at period one. So what I've done is I've rolled forward. And I'm figuring out the total cost of a path to each end state in period 12, in month 12. And then I roll backwards to find the best path through that. So I end up with an optimal production plan. And I can put this in the same table that we've been using so far. And it's 550 units in period one, 450 units in period six, 450 units again in period nine, 550 in period 11. And you can see that the total cost-- $3,750, $1,750 in holding, and setup of $2,000. So we'll compare and contrast this in a second. But let me show you the other way to solve this optimally using a mixed integer linear program.

## Optimal Methods - MILP
So now, let's show another optimal method for solving the fixed planning horizon problem. And this approach is using the mixed integer linear program. So the formulation should look pretty familiar to you if you've done any network design. We have an objective function that includes the setup costs and the holding costs. The setup costs are simply the charge for each setup run, c_setup, multiplied by Z_t, which is one of our decision variables that is equal to 1 if we manufacture anything in time period t and 0 otherwise. It's a binary variable. The second term is the holding costs. And this is simply multiplying the inventory cost for holding one unit over one time period multiplied by the amount of inventory I have at the end of the day. That's I_t. So at the end of the time period. So these are my two costs, the setup costs and the holding costs. I'm minimizing that subject to a series of constraints. The first constraint just sets my inventory level. And I'm assuming my inventory level at time period 0 is 0. I've got nothing starting. The second constraint is the conservation of flow or the inventory balance equation for time period t. What is it saying? It's saying that whatever I produce in time period t-- that's Q_t. It's a decision variable-- minus what's demanded in time period t, what I send out, plus what I had the previous time period at the end of that time period, minus what I end up with this time period is equal to 0. So the inventory has to flow somewhere. I either produce it, I send it out to satisfy demand, I have received it from the previous time period, or I have it at the end of the time period. So that has to be equal to 0. Because I have binary variables and continuous variables, I need to link them together. So this is saying if I produce anything in time period t, then I better turn that binary variable on, saying I'm producing something in time period t. And it does this using the logical constraint we've talked about before with that big M value, which is a very large number. It should probably be equal to the total demand in this case. And so if there's any demand or any product produced in time period t, then we turn that flag on. And then, there's something that we can't do, or we're not able to do, in any of the other approaches we've talked about so far. And that is enforced capacity constraints. So what this constraint is saying is that my capacity in time t cannot be exceeded by whatever I produce in time period t. So it's putting a capacity on what I can produce. And that's very useful. Then, I've got the non-negativity constraints for the inventory level and for the Q, how much I produce. And as I said, my Z variable is binary. It's either 0 or 1. I can put this into a spreadsheet. And I've got my objective function here in cell F5. That's the sum of the setup cost and the holding cost. My decision variables are in cell C12 to N13. The row 12 are the Q_t's. Row 13 are the Z_t's, the binary variables. And what I can do here for you is show you how I calculate the inventory. And so if we look at cell C15, for example, we see that it consists of what I started with in cell C11, my beginning inventory, which is the same thing as my end inventory in the previous time period, plus when I made in that time period minus what I sent out in demand. And that is my ending inventory. And so I calculate that in row 15. And then, you can see in row 19 I cost that out for how much by holding cost is. And I sum that up to determine my total holding cost. My setup cost, I take care of that logical constraint. That's in row 22. And what that's saying, it's saying it's multiplying that big number multiplied by the binary variable minus how much I produced in that period. And we have to enforce the constraint that this is greater than 0. All right. So I have it formulated in here. You can see the equations. I can solve it. And you guys should be very comfortable with this. I've got my objective function of F5. I'm minimizing. I have my decision variables highlighted. And I have really, basically, two constraints. I want to make sure my inventory doesn't go below 0, and I want to make sure that my linking constraints are valid. Now, this one with binary variables, I just named the array in this case. You could just call it that row, and they would be fine. But I'm just setting those as binary variables. Now, if you hit Options here-- and we're solving it as a simplex linear program-- I want to point something out. You want to make sure for solving with integer constraints that you do not check this box. This causes a lot of problems. Ignore Integer Constraints. Make sure that's not checked. If you run something and you get the binary variables are coming out as not binary. Check this first. So it's a little bit of troubleshooting. But at the end of the day, you run this, you solve, it and you'll get the solution. Produce 550 in period 1, 450 in period 6, 450 in period 9, and 550 in period 11. This is the same solution as the Wagner Whitin. Is that a coincidence? No. They're optimal solutions. So they better be the same. So by using one optimal method or another, they should give you the same answer. If they don't, then one of them is not optimal. What we'll do next is compare all the different approaches to each other.

## Comparing Approaches
So now let's compare the approaches for all the different ways we solved the fixed planning horizon problem. So here are all the ways that we did it. On the first column here-- well, first we've got the month, the demand, the one-time buyer, the one-time run algorithm where we do everything at once. We've got the lot for lot. The EOQ-- or the fixed order quantity, the periodic order quantity, the optimal-- whether it's Wagner-Whitin or the mixed integer linear program, Silver-Meal. And then I also threw in the other two myopic heuristics that we didn't go into great detail with. But if you look at it, with the lowest cost-- it better be the optimal one, right? Of $37.50. And what I have is their turnover. And you can see all the costs. But then I also did as a comparison of the percent above optimal. And you can see the worst one is that one-time run or the one-time buy. 263% above optimal. Pretty bad. But the other one's, a lot of these, especially the specialized heuristics, aren't that bad. Within 3% to 7%. And even some of the simple heuristics like the periodic order quantity is only 7% above. Now was it like that in all situations? No. That's the thing with heuristics. Sometimes they work really well. Sometimes they don't. In studies that I've seen is the Silver-Meal algorithm works usually the best. It's within a couple percentage points of optimal. And it works better than some of the very simple ones here. Now sometimes-- and this doesn't sound like it makes sense. The myopic algorithms-- the Silver-Meal, the low unit cost, and the part balancing-- can give better solutions than the optimal. Why would that be the case? Well, the case is that you're optimizing over something that changes. So you're optimizing the wrong problem. Think about what we're doing in either the Wagner-Whitin or the mixed integer linear program. We're optimizing over the entire time period. So 12 months out I'm creating that data just as much, just as valuably as tomorrow. And so I'm finding the optimal approach looking at this entire time period. The problem is, things change. So if I'm optimizing over this whole 12 months, but there are dramatic changes in months 12, 11, 10, or further out, then that can cause problems, because my whole solution might hinge on those months. The myopic heuristics, Silver-Meal and the other ones, they're myopic. So they're only really making decisions on the near term. So they're making decisions on the information they were probably more confident on. I'm probably more confident about the forecast next month or two months out than I am for the forecast 12 months out. The way these approaches usually work in practice is that you work on a rolling horizon. So I make my plan for the next 12 months. Then the new demand comes in, I move up a month. And I forecast again for the next 12 months. And we'll talk in a later lesson how we balance being very nervous and changing our plan each month, or making a little more sticky or calmer. But this is similar to things that we've talked about for forecasting. When do I want to make it a nervous system? When do I want to make it a more calmer, stable system. But if you look at these different methods, there are many different methods out there. Heuristics-- they're good. They're fast. They're easy. But they're not always going to be totally accurate. Specialty heuristics are more sophisticated, a little bit harder to set up. And I know you guys probably struggled going through Silver-Meal the first time. But they tend to give us better real world results. Now optimization usually is a good idea. It requires more time of data though. And it allows for the introduction of other constraints like capacity, which is a good thing. And they tend to give the optimal solution for the given data. So there's a big but here. They assume perfect forecast information. They treat today's date at just as important as next year's. So every piece of data is equal in optimization's eyes. And the optimal production plan is based on all of that data. So as I said earlier, sometimes when forecast exhibits significant change, these myopic heuristics like Silver-Meal can perform better.

## Key Take Aways
OK. What are the key takeaways from this lesson? We covered a lot of ground, actually. But we kind of went really deep into one certain area. So we started off talking about master planning schedules. And we explained how that fits in with the MRP, material requirements plan, and the DRP, the distribution requirements plan. And the MPS, it's not a forecast. It's really a plan for how you're going to meet that forecast. So we'll talk later about how we get the inputs to that. But what we'll do in our next lesson is understand how the interface works between MRP systems and DRP systems. We also talked about how manufacturing strategy influences the plan. We talked about engineering to order, manufacture to order, assemble to order, and then make to stock. And so all those different plans of those different strategies dictate what it is that you're going to plan for. And we looked at different strategies, chase, level, and hybrid. Chase is where I produce exactly what I need when I need it. Level is I try to keep my production plan steady state. There's a lot of value to having stable production. But then my inventory levels will fluctuate versus a hybrid approach, which is more common where you pick and choose what makes the most sense. And we focused more on the fixed planning horizon problem. We dove pretty deep, because my real reason for diving into some of these, I wanted to expose you to two main concepts. First, the idea of heuristics in algorithms. I wanted to make you step through an algorithm, because this is what we take for granted when we throw something into a computer, because all that the computer's doing is doing a step-by-step process. And so I wanted to go through the painful details of the Silver-Meal just to make sure you understand how an algorithm works. Also, I wanted to highlight sometimes a myopic heuristic will give you a better result in practice than an optimal model. And it's mainly because optimization looks at the whole time frame and treats it all equally. And it might end up with a solution that's very brittle, that's very dependent on certain values not changing. Myopic heuristics, on the other hand, are myopic. So they only look at very close time periods. Sometimes in environments where there's a lot of change, they will give you better real world solutions. The optimal solution will always be optimal, given the assumptions don't change. The challenge is in real life, they change a lot. So talked a little bit about all these different systems. And what we'll do next is see how they tie-in to the other systems that determine how I work with my vendors and suppliers and how I work with my customers. So please work the quick questions. Work the practice problems. Use the discussion forum. And so hopefully you're not as confused as Wilson is, although after you've ran through the Silver-Meal algorithm, hopefully you understand it.
