# week04 lesson2 distribution channel strategies

(SC2x video lecture transcript)

## Distribution Channel Strategies
In this lesson, we're going to talk about distribution channel strategies. That is, how do I get my finished goods from my manufacturing plant all the way to the final consumer? Now we spent a lot of time talking about supply chains, defining them. We should be pretty comfortable now that we're designing the flow, the physical flow, the information flow, and the financial flow. And we know it's between at least two parties. And that, in fact, it usually has multiple parties in a supply chain and they can have complex and non-linear relationships. We spent a lot of time looking at how the manufacturing process works with production planning, the MRP process, as well as the bill of materials, all those things that are required to make a product. But now what we want to do is we want to look at the downstream. Now we looked a little bit at DRP, at the Distribution Resource Planning. But what I really want to do now is focus on the channels. So what I'm showing here right now is one channel of getting bicycles from the manufacturer to the end customer or consumer. And there's three tiers there, three echelons to get to the customer-- the manufacturer, the wholesaler, the retailer, finally to the customer. Now there could be other channels. You could go straight to a retailer that goes to the customer. Or you could go straight to the customer itself. So the choice between these different channels is known as distribution channel strategies. Now there's a whole literature and a discipline on the marketing side-- how do I segment my customers for these strategies, things along those lines. What I want to focus on in this lesson is the physical component, the physical flow. So when we talk about distribution channels, we have to define exactly what we mean, because in marketing, it can mean something a little bit different. So when I say a distribution channel, I mean the flow path by which all goods and services travel from the original vendor to the end consumer. And its the pathway that payments are made from the end consumer to the original vendor. Now when I say the original vendor here, I mean of the finished product. So I assume the product is finished and I'm distributing it out. Now there are certain players. There are actually four types of players in these distribution channels. The most obvious one is you, the consumer. Now sometimes you'll see the literature say customer. I like consumer because that kind of grounds it a little more because every person in the supply chain has a customer-- it's the next person in their supply chain. But there's really only one end consumer. So these are the people who buy your product. Now the next most common player here is the retailer. We all know these. We've all heard of Walmart, Flipkart in India, B2W in Brazil, Amazon-- obviously the largest internet retailer out there. Reliance Retail as well, a very large retailer, and Apple and Starbucks. Now Apple you don't think of as a retailer, but you can buy many of their products online. Starbucks as well has those fast service restaurant retail outlets. The next common player is the manufacturer. And these are the people who make stuff. P&G and Unilever for consumer packaged goods, Goodyear for tires, Toyota for cars, AB InBev for beer and other beverages. But notice that Amazon, Apple and Starbucks are listed there as well. In fact, there are companies who can be both. They manufacture products and they're retailers. You can buy their products from them. Apple has its own stores and we'll talk more about that. Starbucks manufactures its coffee and other products and sells it. Amazon started as a pure internet retailer and started making product, like the Kindle, the Echo, and other products. So they're really both now-- a manufacturer and a retailer. The fourth type of player though, is one that not many of you have heard of. You might have heard of a wholesaler or a distributor, but chances are you've never heard of these companies, or you might have heard of one or two of them. So these are the middlemen. These are companies that purchase products in large quantities. They consolidate, they assemble, and they resell to retailers and others usually in certain industries or segments. So Sysco delivers food, distributes food to small to medium sized restaurants. McKesson for pharmaceuticals. C&S Wholesale Grocers does what you would think. They are a wholesaler for grocery stores. They'll sell anything you need in the store, mainly to smaller sized retailers. Rees is the largest beer distributor in the United States. They distribute 150 million cases of beer a year. Brenntag is the German distributor. And WPG Holdings is a Taiwanese electrical wholesaler and distributor. So you have all these companies that you've probably never heard of because they're B to B-- business to business. They usually take product or receive product from manufacturers and sell them to retailers or to other manufacturers. So based on these four types, we can look at three different types of channels. There is the wholesaler channel, where the manufacturer distributes to the wholesaler or the distributor. I'll use those interchangeably. There are some fine distinctions, but I'll use them interchangeably here. And then a product goes to the retailer, and the consumer goes to buy the product. So you can think of wine in the United States as having this wholesaler channel. It's a three tier distribution channel. By law, a manufacturer cannot sell the beer directly. They have to go through a wholesaler to a retailer. Then you can think of a channel that's direct from the manufacturer to the retailer. And you can think of most CPG, Consumer Packaged Good, companies follow this approach. Now there's nothing that says the manufacturer and the retailer have to be different companies. Think back to Apple. Apple will sell its product in its stores that it manufactured. And there are many other examples there. Amazon does the same thing, Starbucks-- so there's nothing that says that the manufacturer and the retailer have to be different companies. Then you can think of the direct-to-consumer market. And probably the most famous example for this initially was the Dell model, where you order your computer online directly from the manufacturer and it comes down to you. Now you could argue, well, they're really a retailer. But the way it was initially sent, they were almost just a pure manufacturer, where you were getting access to your order and it was going straight through you, no intermediate retailer stops. So that's just a quick overview of distribution channel strategies. We're going to dive a little deeper going forward in the next segment. So what I want to achieve in this whole lesson though, were three things-- I want to talk about distribution channel strategies a little deeper, focusing on the physical flow. Then I'll talk about omni-channel distribution, something that's really upending a lot of the retail industry across the world. And then I'll talk about reverse supply chains, reverse logistics, because that comes in and is very much required when you have an omni-channel distribution system. So let's get started.

## Distribution Design Options
So let's talk about some different distribution design options that are out there. So what I'm going to do is show a series of designs. They're going to include a manufacturer, a retailer, and then, in the red down there are the consumers, or the end customers. Now I might have a distributor, or wholesaler, come in, but I'll talk through that. So the most traditional distribution, at least in the United States and for large retailers, is what's known as a multi-tiered distribution network. And that's where the retailer and all the retailer's facilities and operations are in green. They place an order to a manufacturer. The product flows from that manufacturer's either its plant, or from its own DC. But it leaves the manufacturer, comes to the distribution center owned by the retailer, and then they collect it from multiple manufacturers and distribute usually full truckloads, or some delivery, to its individual stores. And the diamonds, or excuse me, the little triangles are the stores. And then the consumer goes and buys the product. So I made this very traditional in that the consumer goes to the store, and that'll be consistent for this segment. And so we see the product flowing from the manufacturer to the retailer's DCs down to the stores, multiple echelons. And we could also have another manufacturer in there, and they would place an order for that manufacturer. And the consolidation occurs at the distribution center of the retailer. Now, what are the pros and cons? This flow leverages the retailers' economies of scale. So retailers love this, right, because they can have more products flowing through their network. And it achieves the economies of scale at their facilities, as well as it fills up those line haul truckloads. However, it comes at the cost of a lot of handling. So you get touched at the DC. You get touched at the retail store. And so it gets touched a fair amount. On the inbound side, from the manufacturer, or the vendor, to the DC, look what it needs to do. We need to justify a full load from that manufacturer for each DC because it's going directly. So what does that mean? Think back to some earlier logistics courses. That means I might have to take longer to justify the demand to justify a truckload or full delivery. So it might take a little more time. On the outbound, though, the DCs are consolidating for those multiple vendors down to the stores. So there will be a high level of inventory at the retail locations because we're pushing everything down. We'll have lower transportation costs because we're going directly from the manufacturer to the DC. And it's good for fast moving items. We can move things very quickly through this. And there's pretty short transit times from the vendors, the manufacturers, to the stores. It'll move pretty quickly. So compare that to this network. This is what's known as having mixing centers or hubs. And notice that this mix center is owned by the retailer. That's why it's in green. So the retailer places an order through its manufacturers. And then they ship product to the mixing center. And so then the mixing center sends full shipments down to the distribution centers of the retailer. And then it flows down to the stores. And the consumers go to the stores. The difference from this and the previous three-tier is that we have this mixing center. So now what this means is I can get more regular shipments from the mix center to the DC from all my different vendors, all my different manufacturers. I don't need to wait for a full truckload, or full quantity, to justify that trip. I'm mixing them. So pros and cons, we're still leveraging that economies of scale within the retailer's network on both the inbound and outbound now. The DCs are able to mix products from multiple sources. And we'll still have a high level of inventory down at those retail locations. Now, this is better for slow moving items. And we'll talk more about this as we move forward. And it has a longer transit time from vendors to stores because, again, instead of going directly from the manufacturer to the DC, it's going through this mixing center, so it can add an extra day. But there are benefits here because I can have more frequent deliveries from the slow moving vendors. You can compare that to a distributor's, or a wholesaler's, network. This is where the retailer places the order to the distributor maybe for its beer, for example, to have that delivered. And then they will get replenished by the manufacturers. And the distributor will go to the DCs, typically, of the retailer. And then they'll flow down to the stores. Consumers will go to the stores and select, view, receive, and pay for the goods at the store. Now pros and cons, this leverages the distributor's economics. But there is a lot of handling, right? It's handled at the manufacturer, at the distributor, at the DC level. There's also still a lot of inventory stored at the retail locations. But I am able to consolidate product from multiple vendors here, multiple manufacturers. That's one of the things that a distributor, or a wholesaler, can do. So there will be high level of inventory still at the retail stores. We have lower transportation costs through this scale economics. And this is good for really much slower moving items, or specialty items, that a distributor has. And it has a slightly higher cost because you're paying this third-party now. This distributor, this middleman, is in there. But they serve a purpose. They consolidate and aggregate product of much slower moving product. Then we have what's known as direct to store delivery, or DSD. And this is where the manufacturer has an order placed to it by the retailer. And instead of going to the DC, they go straight to the stores. That's why it's called direct to store delivery, or DSD. So they'll go to each store. And oftentimes what the merchant, or the vendor, will do is merchandise the shelf. And all that that means is they make it look pretty so you want to buy something. So if it's potato chips, they'll fluff them up and make sure it looks full, put extra ones in. They'll place the order. They're essentially managing the retailer's shelf. And the consumer goes and buys the product. So pros and cons here. This leverages the vendor's economics. So a company like Coca-Cola or Pepsi will deliver DSD, direct store delivery. Most beverages will be delivered this way. Newspapers, some kind of snack foods will be delivered this way. Sometimes frozen pizza comes this way. Why? Well, for the vendor, I'm bypassing the DC. I'm getting closer to my customer because remember, the manufacturer wants to get as close as possible to the consumer that's buying their product. This way, they essentially own the shelf. They can make it look better, and they can make sure the product is fresh. That's the thought of it. Now the retailer side, many retailers don't like DSD. They prefer not to have someone deliver to my retail outlet because the deliveries aren't always sequenced when I want them. Sometimes if the beverage truck comes, it might block my whole store. They'll deliver in the middle of the day. They would rather control their own destiny. So there is a little loss of control of the product flow and availability by the retailer. And so there's always a give and take over what goes DSD and what goes more traditional through the retailer's distribution channel. But it's widely used in the United States, certainly, for select items. And you'll see this with a one or two-person team where the first person might go to a store, check what needs to go in, and place the order. And the second vehicle coming behind it will actually replenish. And so there's a lot of different strategies here. But DSD is a commonly used distribution channel. Then we have dropshipping. And this is where the consumer now orders from the retailer. We haven't had this before. Everything so far has been the consumer walks to the store or drives to the store, and that's where they view, they order, they pay, and they receive the product. Now, I'm placing an order. Whether it's electronically, over a phone, fax, carrier pigeon, it doesn't matter. I place an order to the retailer. They, in turn, place an order to the manufacturer. And the manufacturer ships directly to me, so me being the consumer. So the classic case here is computers, the Dell computer model, we talked about already. It actually has quite a slow response time eventually to the consumer because it's coming all the way from the manufacturer. It's not sitting at the retail store. So you tend to think this is mainly for more customized products. It allows for that high level of customization where you might be the only unique buyer who has that certain configuration. And remember, this is different because the consumer now places the order. And it triggers what's known as a pull, right? It's pulling the product through. Everything I've talked about before has essentially been a push all the way down to the stores. That is, it's operating off of a forecast. So we bypass the retail DCs. This could reduce congestion at the DCs and the stores. It might hollow them out, though. So you don't know. It's a trade-off, but as another delivery distribution. The other thing to note is that the amount of touches are totally minimized. It's only touched at the manufacturer and the final consumer. There's not these intermediate touches. And as we've talked before, any time you touch the product, you slow it down. You break it and think bad things happen. So when at all possible, you try to do this direct or dropshipping. So this is another channel. So I showed five different distribution designs. And the wrong question to ask is which is the best? They're all there for a different purpose. And in fact, most companies will have multiple channels. The idea of a company having one supply chain or one distribution channel just doesn't make sense. You really have a selection based on the velocity of the product, that is the demand. As you have higher demand, that means it's moving through your system faster, higher turns, all of those kind of things. The desired response time to consumers, if you want something immediate, then you probably want to move on one of the distributions on the left where you push product to the store rather than the dropshipping. And then the physical characteristics might lead you to a direct store delivery, or DSD, and the value of the products. So any retailer will probably have a mix of these. They'll have some DSD. They'll have some things that-- products they only can get through a distributor. Some they get through their own mixing center, and some through their own tiers of distribution. So this is just a snapshot of five traditional, or typical, distribution options that are out there.

## Rise and Evolution of e-Commerce
Of course, no discussion of distribution strategies would be complete without talking about e-commerce, so let's go over the timeline here. So the first e-commerce players appeared in 1995, right in there when the Internet was still new and novel. Some of you younger students listening to this video can't imagine a world without the Internet. It didn't really appear until 1995. And even then, it took several years for mass adoption. So the first players out there of significance, Amazon, eBay, and there are a handful of other ones, actually launched in 1995. Alibaba launched about two or three years later, and these were firms that allowed customers to buy goods and services over the Internet, using a website with no physical presence. That was a big novelty. There were a lot of concerns. Is it safe? Is it secure? What if I get the wrong product? So all the things that we take for granted today were just being figured out in this time frame. Then, in around 2000, we started having-- the traditional retailers came on. Because prior to this, when the pure players, the Amazons came out, and eBay, there suddenly was an opinion that having traditional stores, all those mortars, that's seen as an unnecessary feature. It would drag the retailer down. Why do you need to have stores if you can do everything online? That was the prevailing thought in that time frame, 1995 to 2000. So you might ask, well, why didn't the retailers, the large retailers, and here I list two, Sears, Marks & Spencer, but you could put Walmart, Home Depot, Target, all of those in the same bucket, you might ask, "Why didn't they get engaged with the Internet earlier?" Why didn't they start, say, 1995, 1996? They could see the writing on the wall, as this would take off. And there's a reason that you might not think about today because now it's much later, and that's the Y2K bug. There was a lot of fear in the late 90s that legacy computer systems weren't coded correctly to take into account a four digit year. To save space in early computer programs, you would only use the last two digits. Because 1967, 1968, all you need to know is that the last two digits are greater than someone else's last two digits and you know it's a later year. Well, that changes when you go to a new millennium, and so the Y2K, or the year 2000 bug, was something that petrified large companies. And a lot of IT resources, tremendous amounts of IT resources, were dedicated at these large companies to harden their systems and make sure that they were Y2K compliant. Massive amounts of effort was placed there. So that kind of opened the door for a lot of these newer startups to kind of get the jump, because these larger, established companies were making sure that their existing computer systems that handled distribution, payroll, HR, finance, all those things, weren't going to blow up on January 1st, 2000. It sounds kind of silly now, but, trust me, it was a serious endeavor, and it took a lot of effort. So, starting in 2000, once we went over the Y2K issue, and it was really kind of a bust, there weren't many problems but, again, a lot of effort was placed trying to harden systems ahead of time. So, starting in 2000, we started seeing multi-channel distribution. This is where these firms would use both online and traditional channels. They're known as bricks and clicks, right? So you had this bricks, or sometimes you'd hear clicks, and mortar. So you'd have two distinct channels and you would have them supported by different supply chains. Why would you do that? Well, there's-- Think about it this way. When you think about a distribution center, or any kind of facility that brings in freight and distributes it, how it's designed is really a function of the size of the stuff that comes in and the size of the stuff that goes out. And you can think of that as pallets, cases, and eaches. And when you're talking about a distribution network like we described before, from a manufacturer to a retailer DC, to individual stores, you're talking at those DCs, pallets in, maybe pallets out, or cases out. When you're talking about providing a delivery to an end-user for an Internet or e-commerce, you're talking eaches, and so it's a very different operation. So initially, they kept them very separate. They managed the inventory separate, the flow separate. They were fulfilled by separate centers, and so they're kept very differently. In fact, the amount of inventory you'd have and the variety would be very different if you went to the store versus if you ordered something online. And so they're very separate. But then something amazing happened in 2007, and that's when the first smartphone appeared. And it seemed like just kind of a neat gadget at first. This is when Apple released its first iPhone. It was January 7th, 2007. And the amazing thing about this, it was seen as a very fragile device, because if you dropped it, it would shatter. It was not really robust. A lot of the applications weren't developed yet, but it was kind of a stake in the ground, because now, what this did, it introduced the idea of mobile commerce. I'm no longer tethered, even though I have the Internet, I was tethered to my desktop, maybe a laptop, but you're almost always tied into a cable. Now I'm mobile. And over the last 10 years, 50% of the world's population of smartphones and 40% of the world's population have solid internet connectivity, so it's changed everything. So how did that change the distribution? Well, it created what's known as the omni-channel. And so, the omni-channel is a kind of a cliche now, but what it really means, it's the evolution or next step of what we describe the multichannel retailing, where instead of having two separate channels, they're really blended. So the firm, the retailer's providing a seamless experience to all the available shopping channels, whether it's online or offline. And so the operations are now mixed between channels. So it doesn't mean that everything flows exactly through, but it's managed collectively. And so what this means, consumers have multiple options for where they research, where they order product, where they receive that product, where and how they pay for it, and how they return the products, if needed. So it's changed a lot of things. And to demonstrate that, let's break it down in two ways. Let's first look at from a consumer's perspective. Our perspective now is buyer's. So what are my core activities? Well, when I want to buy something, I first have to do some research. I have to select, or view, or see what my options are, and make a decision. Then, once I've made a decision, I have to place an order. I have to tell someone, yes, I will do this. I have to determine where I'm going to receive those goods, and I have to figure out how I'm going to pay for that and actually pay for those goods. And, if needed, I need to have a way to return those goods if I don't want them anymore, if something's wrong with them, they're damaged, for whatever reason. So these are the five core activities. And so, traditionally, all the different distribution channels that I showed in the beginning of this lesson, the traditional activities happen at the store. You research at the store, you go see what's on the shelf, you order at the store, you pick it up and go to the cash register. You receive it by picking it up. You pay for it at the cash register, with cash or credit card, whatever. And if you wanted to return it, typically, I had to go back to that store. Not just that chain but that store. Then we introduced online e-commerce. Right? This is circa-1995. Going forward, I would, my research, I can do it online. I could look and see and do price comparisons. That was a dramatic change. And this scared a lot of traditional retailers because, all of a sudden, I can go online and see what everyone's prices are. I can find out how much cheaper it is to go to different sites. I place the order online. I receive it, usually at home. I have it delivered to me through parcel carrier. I pay for it online, usually with a credit card. And then, if I want to return it, and that was a little challenge initially, it's gotten better, but you'd have to coordinate something with a local parcel delivery, for a pick up, usually at your home. So, now, let's get to omni-channel, or mobile commerce. So where do I do my research? Everywhere. I can go to the store. I can go to the location. They call it showboating, sometimes, where I can go in and look, but I can actually place my orders on my own tablet or smartphone. But I can also do my research on my smartphone, or on my tablet, or on my laptop. Where can I place the order? Well, I can place it at the store. I can place it with my smartphone at home. I can place it on my smartphone at the store, and so all these different options are out there. Where do I receive it? Well, traditionally, I could have it at the store. I could pick it off the shelf, still. I could have it delivered to me at home. I could have it delivered to me at my workplace. I could have it delivered to a locker system where they give me the combination or the access code, and I can go there and pick it up at my leisure. You see this a lot of places in parking garages. Or I could pick it up at a coordinated gas station or convenience store, where they will receive these packages and hold them for you. When you come and show your ID, then you take it away. Now, it could also-- you receive it at a store that would, but it's not on the shelf, they have it behind, in the back room, for example. So I place it online. I may go and pick it up there. And there's a name for that, actually, it's called "click and collect." So I click, I order it online. I probably pay for it online. But I go and pick it up at the store. A lot of retailers are doing this for their grocery items. So I place this online, and then I go in, and they let them know when I come around the back, and they hand me my groceries at the appointed time. So a lot of variety here. So how do I pay? Usually, you pay at the store, or you'll pay online with credit of some sort. And there's a variety of different credit systems out there, not just credit cards anymore. Interestingly, as you look at omni-channel as compared to traditional online e-commerce, as soon as I'm allowed to pick it up at the store, that means I can pay cash. And, in fact, some retailers have a high percentage of ordering online but picking up in the store and paying cash. That was an option that wasn't available previously with a pure e-commerce or online. So it's combining these things. And, finally, returning. The policy, as you see more and more, you're able to return almost anywhere. In fact, the online stores, they have to do this because their returns are almost 30%, and for a bunch of reasons that we'll talk about in a few minutes. But it's becoming where there's multiple ways that I can return product, just like there are multiple ways I can receive the product. So that was one perspective. That's the consumer. And, for us buying things, this is awesome. Right? I can buy it on my phone. I can have it delivered to me at work. It's so many options and flexibility it provides a consumer, is almost intoxicating. Let's look at the retailer's perspective, though, and this is all about challenges. And there's three big challenges that I want to highlight. There's many, many other ones, but let's talk about the big three. First, where do I make the orders? Where do I prepare them? Second, where and how do I get that order to the customer? And the third, how do I handle those returns? So the big first question is, where do you make the orders? Traditionally, we're doing these at distribution centers, or we've talked about fulfillment centers where you're more, you're picking eaches. Instead of a distribution center, you might be receiving pallets and shipping cartons, fulfillment centers usually receive pallets and they send out eaches. Now, also, you can think about the store. Maybe, if for local delivery, if someone orders it online and they're very close, I can go out to the store and pick from the shelves and make my order that way. Or maybe I just keep some in the back room and deliver from there. So the store now can potentially be a fulfillment center. It's already out there and has eaches, and it's a lot closer to the customer. And, as we know by now, the closer I am to the customer, the faster I can get it there. So, maybe, as opposed to when we were thinking in 1995 to 2000, having all of these mortar facilities, these stores, was a detriment, maybe it's a competitive advantage now, 'cause I have all this inventory right next to where my customers are. So I can prepare the order at the DC, the fulfillment center, or the store, or any kind of combination. So what this does, it trades off distance. Do I do it from the closest location? Maybe not. Maybe it's a high-end store, and it doesn't make sense. It's maybe more efficient to do it slightly further away, from a fulfillment center that's geared to do that picking or effectiveness. One of the challenges for using a store as a forward picking location is that the people working in the store, those employees, they're not trained at that. They're trained to sell you stuff, not how to pick, pack and ship. So it's a very different match there. It also affects packaging. We've talked in previous courses about primary, secondary, and tertiary packaging. And as I move to the primary packaging, that's there to market for me to buy it. It's bright colors, it's thin cardboard. But, usually, I don't want to ship it in that, I want to ship it in something a little more stable, secondary or tertiary packaging. So if I'm going to pick from the store, then I've got a problem with packaging because it wasn't designed for that further delivery. And then adapting the workforce, facilities, and systems to new tasks. Just like I said, the people selling shoes to you, they don't know how to pick, pack and ship, that's not their job. In fact, do you want them doing that, or do you want them selling product? So you're now taking away sales time from them. Is that a good thing? Also, the facilities are different. So if I'm going to be relying on the ability for me to find product in my store to satisfy an online demand, I need to know what's in my store. And one of the running jokes about doing in-store fulfillment is having inventory picked from your store shelves is like having a DC with a random, drunk person going around moving stuff. Because the availability of product in the store is a hard problem. Most retailers are challenged with knowing exactly what is in stock in their store, and where it is. There's something called "phantom inventory." And what this means, the system says it's in the store, but it's not there. You can't find it. It's on too high of a shelf, someone put it behind something, someone forgot to bring it out, it was stolen. So you have all these challenges of adapting the workforce, the facilities, and the systems, the inventory systems in this case, to these new tasks. And you need to maintain inventory visibility across all these channels. Because I can source from anywhere, I need to know where everything is. And the systems, traditionally, are not suited for that. Inventory within the store was kept separate from the DC, separate from the fulfillment centers. So there's a lot of challenges here. A lot of opportunities. But it requires a lot of synergy between different entities. OK, how do we get the product to the customer? Well, you can have them pick up in the stores, and that's something that's very promising, because people tend to be moving around anyway, picking up after work or something like that. Have it delivered at home, at a third party location, like a convenience store. Amazon is opening up lockers that are located in the back of 7-Eleven stores, and what this means is that, if you order something online, you pick where you want it sent to, and you go-- they send you a code and it's in that locker at the back of that local store for you. Sometimes you have these located in parking garages. You can them located at work. They can be attended or not attended. So there's a lot of interesting things coming out. Interestingly, DHL has been doing this in Europe for about, gosh, 10, 15 years now, but it's really taking off in some other areas. You can also think about how it actually physically gets moved. You might have your own fleet of trucks, which is very expensive. You could use a parcel carrier, whether it's the national carrier or a private carrier, it really depends on the country that you're in. Or you can use crowdsourcing. So Uber is actually used quite a lot to deliver product. Instacart is pure crowdsourcing for delivery from grocery stores and other retail stores. Shipt is another courier. So you have all of these different transportation options that are bubbling up just for that last mile delivery. And there's even concepts of a mobile locker where you have things loaded on a truck that has lockers on it, and it moves to a common location, people take their products, and then it moves away. So there's a lot of interesting things happening on that second point, where and how you meet the customer with your order. And the final thing, how do you handle returns? Well, why do we care? Because it's 30% for online, on average. And that's compared to 8% for traditional retail. So it's much, much bigger, and so we have to think about, where can I handle these returns? Do I do it at the location where they made the purchase? That's a traditional approach. Do I have set up drop points? Do I take it everywhere? Or Do I make it so they can just ship it back? So it's a challenge. And, then, why do I allow them? Do I allow damage? That would make sense, the wrong size, wrong color. What are the reasons that I allow to take product back? And the whole idea of handling returns is such a big item, we're going to spend a couple of more segments on that. But, hopefully, you got a sense of how important the whole mobile commerce and the omni-channel approach has been. In the next segment, we'll apply a quick little problem to look at the design of an omni-channel network.

## Omni-Channel Network Design
So we talked about omnichannel in kind of generalities and why it's important, and how it's different from traditional or e-commerce. Now let's show how you can do a network design for an channel system. And so here's a simple example. We're calling it Araz. It's a fast fashion retailer. And they're selling mainly to fashion conscious women on a budget. They currently distribute their products from their own plants to their own branded stores or directly from fulfillment centers to the home for online sales. And they've decided to try to offer different delivery options for their online, their e-commerce and m-commerce consumers. And so the four options they're exploring is continued home delivery, pickup in their stores, pick up in a convenience store that is an attended pickup point, or pick up in an automated package station or an APS, which is unintended. And that's where a code is sent ahead of time and you have to enter that code in to open the locker. So it's a new, a different way of having a delivery. And so the question is, how should Araz design this omnichannel network? And we want to formulate a mixed integer linear program to design this physical flow using these multiple channels. And we want to determine the flow quantity through each of the channels and the intermediate facilities that we want to open in order to minimize the total cost. So here is my simplified network. And what I have is a distribution center, that's the CDC on the far left. And I'm getting product to the people on the far right. And you see you have many different channels or flow paths through this very, very simple network. Let me start with the simplest one. From the CDC-- I'm just going to circle here-- that's the distribution center, using a van to its own retail stores. Now once it's at the retail stores the consumer could walk -- that's what those little footsteps are for-- or they get to the store themselves somehow. And they go there and they pick it off the shelf. That's what the shopping cart's for. Or they could have ordered it online, had it brought to the retail store, and then they go pick it up from the back room. So it's that click and collect that I talked about. So that's one option. Another option is they can get it delivered to the store, but perhaps Zara delivers with a large truck to a ID or an intermediate depot. And then they do local vans for delivery out to each retail store. So it doesn't change for the consumer. But the way it flows for Araz is different. They could also use one of the depots to deliver to a convenience store. And this is where you'd have one of those attended pickup points. It could be a 7-Eleven or a gas station. This is very common in Europe. Less common in the United States, although it's starting to catch on. So you have a delivery and they are local to you. And they will just keep the things behind the counter where they might have a way of securing it for you. So I could supply that through the depot or I could go directly from the CDC itself. And then once it's there, My consumer will walk to it or drive to it and they'll pick it up directly. It's not on the shelf, it's sitting behind the counter or in some back room. I could also have an APS. Remember, that's that automated package system. That that's the unattended one where it's a locker. I might deliver straight from the CDC or it might go through another depot in a large conveyance in order to lower the cost of the line haul to a depot, and then a small van to that APS. To pick it up the consumer would walk or drive to it and would just pick it up. The other options I have is delivering straight to the home from the CDC. Or maybe going through that depot and going to the home. So very simple example but look at all the different ways products can flow. It can flow 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,10 different ways. That's amazing. So how would you determine which flow to use, which depots to open because you might have different potential IDs or intermediate depots to open? Which ones make sense? So here's the simple formulation. And this should look very familiar to you by now. It's a mixed integer linear program and it's a network design. It's the same stuff we've been talking about for the last several weeks. So look at the objective function. My first term is all about the fixed costs. And these are of the intermediate depots are open or not. That's one of my decisions. Do I open an ID, an intermediate depot or not? And there's a fixed cost associated with that. The next flow, that's tying in the cost to serve that final point of delivery from a CDC or an ID. Then I've got the fixed cost of that for each of those IDs, the handling cost rather. Then I've got the flow cost on those deliveries to the final points. And then I've got a handling at those final points. So that's my objective function. My constraints are, I have to make sure I have enough supply. I can't send any more out than I have supply of. I don't want to send any more out than is demanded. I need to make sure I meet all of the demand. I need this logical constraint to make sure that if I flow something on the arc kj that I actually have the facility k open. I can't ship product through an ID if it's not open. So that's that logical or linking constraint. Then I have conservation of flow. If something goes in to one of those intermediate depots, those IDs, stuff's got to come out. It doesn't get stored. So what goes in must go out. And then I have some min and max values for the capacity that I can have, or the number of that I can open. So it's a pretty straightforward network design that should look very similar to the ones we did in previous lessons where we do for a larger multi city network. It's really the same structure. So I'm going to put in some cost here. And all of this data is available to you at the bottom of the video. And I have it in a spreadsheet form because I'm going to solve it in that. You could also solve it in other packages. You're not restricted to using the solver within a spreadsheet. You can use other systems. But here are the costs. And here it is in a spreadsheet. And you can see the objective function up here, and then all of the series of constraints. The decision variables are all in yellow. And again, this should be repetitive by now. This should look very familiar to you. And so I can solve this using different solver parameters. Here I'm showing it in Excel. But you can also figure, you can use this in LibraOffice, you can use other systems like SAS, you can use AMPL. It doesn't matter. It will give you the same answer. So here is the original question, how would we set up all the different flow channels. And if you optimize with the numbers that we gave you you'll end up with this. So let's go back. So here's all my options. And what we did is we found the optimal flow or paths to flow. And it looks like we'll be sending product directly to the store. We'll also be using that convenience store for a fair amount. And we'll also be using ID too, which should be going to that automated service as well as some home delivery. So what we've done here is designed a network for the omnichannel distribution. Now this was a simple, simple problem but you can see the same structure applies that we used for large scale network design. It's the same problem. It makes it even more interesting because I have so many different options to meet my final consumers.

## Reverse Supply Chains
So now let's talk about reverse supply chains. These are the supply chains that handle that return flow. Most of the work that I'm going to talk about here, most of the material, has been adapted by work materials made by Dr. Eva Ponce. So far we've introduced the SCOR model and we talked about how product flows from suppliers to customers. We have this plan and we source, make, and deliver, and we create this enabling layer that operationalizes it. But everything has been flowing from suppliers to customers. Everything moves downstream. The question is, what happens if things move upstream, if I have things being returned for delivery or returned all the way back to its original source? And this is actually part of the SCOR model, we just haven't talked about it too much. So what kind of things would get returned or why would things get returned? Well, you can think of commercial returns and these are all the things you order and they're the wrong size, the wrong color, it's the wrong style, the shirt makes me look fat-- any reason that the consumer has for sending the product back. It wasn't what they thought it was going to be. You also have warranties and recalls. When a product is seen to be dangerous, they have to recall them out of all of the customer locations-- out of all the retail locations, rather. I might have overstocks or have a poor promotion. I promoted a certain detergent, its way out there and I didn't sell as much, so the retailers might want to flow that back. So it's returning upstream. Leases-- if you're leasing equipment or some material and then it's done, it's got to be returned. So it returns and has a reverse flow. You can also think of defective products. If there's damage, how does that get processed back through? The retailer probably wants credit for that. You can think of a product where it's at end of use or end of life, and they're not the same thing. An end of use means you're done with it. That one consumer is done with it. We all know that one person, we have that one friend who gets a new cell phone every six months. Well, their cell phone, if they turn back in to the network provider, they're not going to throw it away. They're going to resell it to someone else. It's end of use for that consumer. It'll be pushed down to a secondary market for someone else. So that's end of use. End of life is it's done, it's dead. It can't be used again. Think of washing machines when it's broken. So when you're at end of life, there is no future user for it. And then you have this whole category that you might not think about called reusable articles. And let me spend a second on that before we get into the nitty gritty of some of the other types of returns. So reusable articles are these durable products. They're intended to be used by multiple users, multiple times in different locations across supply chain network. And you could really divided into two big categories-- the conveyances and the product themselves. So a conveyance is simply something that a product moves in. And you can think of this on a continuum from a very standardized type of conveyance to a very highly customized or specialized one. And what usually makes it specialized is that it's very close to the product. In fact, the product might be touching it, as opposed to this widely standardized one, it's within secondary and tertiary packaging. So the most widely standardized and generic conveyance is the container. So I've got the standard shipping container-- a 40 foot or a 20 foot or some other standard length. And I'm going to have many, many, many of these out there because it's standardized. Everyone uses the same. Everyone make sure it's standardized because it's easier to pick up. It's nice to have a standard box. So this will distribute between multiple firms and will move across the network. Same can be said for pallets. Again, these are used by multiple users across the whole network. There are companies that actually manage the flow of these pallets through the network. You can think of these plastic totes. A lot of retailers will use these for that last delivery from their DC to their stores. They'll load things into these totes, individual eaches and cases and deliver them that way. And then we go to a standard cart. Same thing. It's a conveyance that the product moves in. Then we get a little more specialized and think of returnable bottles. So the difference between, say, a bottle and a shipping container is the bottle, if it's going to be recycled, has to go back to the same company that made it. You can't take a Budweiser bottle and give it back to Miller bottler. If you're going to reuse the bottles, they have to go back to the same location, and that's what makes it different. The same thing with a propane tank. If I buy propane for my grill or something, I have to send it back to that same provider. Same thing for kegs of beer. Same thing for printer cartridges. So when I replace an Inkjet printer cartridge, I have this cartridge I send back. I can't send it back to a different vendor. It has to go back to that vendor. So the big differences on this continuum between the widely standardized ones, the containers, is that they will have many, many users out there. There will be a large number of those containers out there, versus at this other end, I will only use them within the firm because they have come back to the same company that made them. And there will be fewer of them. So that's the continuum for conveyances. But you also have reusable articles that are the products themselves. Think of a library. The book gets checked out by multiple people over and over again. Same thing with a video library. You think of bike sharing. This is very common in European cities and some US cities, where you actually belong and you can take a bike from one location to another location. And so you're sharing that bike. Multiple people will use it. You can also think about surgical equipment. It's not like they throw out the surgical equipment after they've done a surgery. It gets sterilized and recycled back. It gets used by multiple users multiple times. You can think of wheelchairs as well. So the product can circulate, the conveyance can circulate. The common thing here is that it's now a closed-loop supply chain. Everything we've talked about so far flows downstream, supplier to end customer. Now we have things that come back. And we've already talked about this actually in a previous class. We talked about this when we talked about transportation because transportation has what's known as the balance problem, especially when you're dealing with pallets and containers because they're never where you want them to be. They tend to be where things have been delivered and you need empty ones where you manufacture things. So there's always a rebalance of these different conveyances. The same thing happens for the product if you have a closed-loop supply chain. Because one of the challenges for these bike sharing systems is that the bikes are never where you want them to be. You need to have someone physically go out in a van, collect and reposition them to make sure it's balanced where the supply is going to be where the demand is going to materialize. So anytime you have this closed-loop supply chain, you've got to make sure that the demand and the supply are in sync. And someone needs to manage that. So this is a very special type of reverse flow, because again, it's a closed loop. It's constantly looping through. Next we'll talk about more traditional returns and reverse logistics.

## Product Recovery Options
Now let's dive a little deeper into reverse logistics and talk about the different options I have for recovering products that have been returned. So we've talked about the downstream process, the source, make, and deliver that we've been using since the beginning of these courses. And to talk about the whole supply chain, the reverse supply chain, I need to extend this a little bit. So on the left side, the sourcing side, I need to include the extraction process and the transformation process. Think of extraction as taking the raw materials. This could be metal from the ground, this could be rubber from plants. So you extract that material, you transform it somehow into something I can use, you source it, you make it, deliver it, and now we need to extend it on the other side in that the product is used. So this is the whole life cycle of a product from extraction to end of use. So at the end of its use, it usually gets returned, and so you're going to do something with it, whether you're going to recycle it or not, but it has to be collected, and transported to some location where they sort and make a disposition on it. They make a decision, and the standard decisions are do I reuse it, do I refurbish or repair it, do I remanufacture, do I cannibalize it, do I recycle it. So we'll explain each of these in more detail, but essentially, what you're determining is what do I do with this return product. Now, these first three, what's interesting about them and common about them, they will return the product to that delivery part of your supply chain, that last loop before it goes to the customer. And this is where that closed loop supply chain process goes. Think of pallets. Pallets gets used, they get returned and reused. Containers, all of those things. But also things that are repaired or refurbished or remanufactured. They can get pushed back to that delivery cycle. If I cannibalize or recycle it, that's pushing it further upstream. And so another option that we haven't listed yet, of course, is disposal. I get rid of it. It's not worth anything. So I sent it to a landfill, I incinerate it, I do something with it just to get rid of it. So you've got this whole reverse flow now, and this shows the whole closed loop. And so what I want to do now is dive into each of these options a little more, because they differ in a bunch of interesting ways. And the main difference is where they enter back into the supply chain. So my supply chain is going from raw materials, through parts fabrication, modules assembly, product assembly, distribution, the end users, then here's my reverse. I have different options here for direct reuse. It goes into distribution, repair, refurbishing, remanufacturing, cannibalization, recycling, and disposal. You see they hit the supply chain at different locations. So let's go through each of them individually. First one, direct reuse or resale. Now we talked a second ago about reuseable articles. These are the pallets, containers, totes, things like that. Or products that are reused like those bicycles, books, VCR tapes, anything that gets reused by multiple users. So when those things come in, then you inspect them, and if need sterilize, clean, prepare them for redeployment, and they can be used across the firm or across the network, depending on how generalized they are. But there's a whole series of other products that are not meant to be reusable. So these are, say, shirts or shoes that I ordered online. I get them and they're wrong size. So I return them. If I haven't used them, then they can be inspected, deemed ready for reuse, and put right back into the distribution cycle. So I can be distributing them to another person who requests them. So that's the fastest way back for returns. The next group, where I have to do something to the product. So the first level is repair. So think of a smartphone, because if anyone has kids, they know that kids drop their smartphones and the screen cracks. So what when you send that back for return cycle, they will take that and return it back to working order. So this will involve fixing or replacing broken parts. In this case, the new screen, that glass screen. So repair is where you get it back to working order. Refurbish is where you bring them up to a slightly higher quality level, and that can be specified. So you might replace critical modules, you might inspect or fix or replace them, and sometimes this includes a technology upgrade. And at the higher level is remanufacturing. And this is where the products are brought up, not to a certain quality level, but to the same level as rigorous as the new products themselves. So remanufactured goods should be just as good as a primary manufactured good. And so you've made a lot more work to it, you replace a lot more parts. Then we can think of cannibalization. And cannibalization is where that product is used to recover reusable parts and components from it, and you're going to use those and other products. When I was in the military, I ran a motor pool for a couple years, and what we did there is if a vehicle, a truck was being retired, we'd almost strip it for parts. So you use it, you're cannibalizing it, to use for other products. And so you usually only cannibalize a small portion of the products, and the remaining parts would be recycled or disposed of. And so, this is commonly used when computers come back, you grab some of the integrated circuits. So anytime you can cannibalize key components or modules, you do that. It makes sense. And then you've got recycling. And from this, I'm taking the products, the materials, that were used to make it, and I'm going to process them somehow to be reused in the production of other components or other parts. Think of metals, paper, cardboards, plastic. I'm taking it down to almost its raw material, and that goes back in to the parts fabrication stage. So you can see, as I get more intensive, I move further upstream. And then of course, the last option there is disposal. And that just means you get rid of it, whether it's a landfill or incineration of some sort. So these are the options that you have. And so hopefully, you get a sense of the differences between forward and reverse logistics. And every supply chain has both. It's just the reverse logistics has become more important over the last 10 to 20 years. So in forecasting, we all know forecasting is hard, but it's harder for reverse logistics, because you have this uncertainty of when the end of life will happen. The transportation is a mirror opposite of the forward. It's a many to one instead of a one to many, and both product quality and packaging. Instead of being uniform, as coming out in a forward logistics, it's very different. That's the reason why it's being brought back. The quality might be severely degraded, and you don't know how far it will take to repair and bring back up to standard. The destination routing is relatively clear going forward. You have a plan. It's unclear coming back. The pricing is very widely unknown. The delivery speed is usually not considered a priority. No one's rushing to get scrap back, and so it has a much slower cadence. The distribution costs are not directly visible, they're not transparent. Inventory management is not consistent, because it's already off the books in many cases. And real time information is generally not available. So there's a lot of challenges over and beyond the forward logistics, that reverse logistics has to deal with. So why do we care? Well, we care for a bunch of reasons, actually. The first is, we're doing more of it. We're increasing the amount of waste generated. Every day in the United States, more than 300,000 cell phones are disposed of. In the European Union, each citizen over the course of a year generates about 17 to 20 kilograms of technological waste. So we're generating more of it. These products contain hazardous material, lead, cadmium, mercury, things that are not good for the environment, or for the health of humans. And we have a shrinking product lifecycle, so these cell phones, the life cycle is only 18 months now. Laptops, 24 months. So we're generating more of it, it has hazardous materials, and the product lifecycle is getting faster, so there's going to be even more of it coming along. And there's an increase in the amount of regulations. In some regions and predominantly the European Union, producers are being held responsible for the environmentally safe disposal of their products. This is called extended producer responsibility. And so, many different end of life waste framework directives in the EU have been handed down for batteries, vehicles, tires, and other things. Other regions, this is going to be happening as well. Sometimes there's marketplace solutions for this. Other times, there's regulatory solutions, but you're going to see more of it in either case. So you'll only have more of this reverse or return logistics happening within your supply chain.

## Example: Battery Recycling Network Design
So now let's look at the network design for a recycling network-- in this case, battery collection. So what's the situation? Well, across the world, over 40 billion batteries are sold per year. Used batteries contain toxic and hazardous compounds. They can hurt the environment. They can hurt people. They can hurt animals. There have been an increasing number of regulatory requirements, particularly in the European Union, such as the Directive on Batteries and Accumulators, passed in 2006. Now, the collection rate of batteries has improved dramatically from about 25% in 2011 to 45% in 2015, and the recycling rate for consumer waste batteries is almost 50%, although this varies widely by different parts of the world. But the challenge here is how do I design a network for collection points, consolidation centers, and recycling plants to receive and process these used batteries. So we want to formulate a mixed integer linear program to design the reverse logistics network and the used product flow from collection points to recycling plants. So here's what it looks like. On the left, you have collection points. And I'll have many, many, many of these where people will return their batteries. And somehow, I will collect those and move them to some kind of storage or sorting location that's local, and I might consolidate that up to a larger regional or to a centralized one. And then eventually, they'll go to recycling facilities. Now, why would I consolidate from local to regional to central? Well, as I move and have more product, I can use more efficient transportation. And so it makes it much more efficient, just like we have the process going the other way. Do we want to go downstream in the forward logistics flow? Here I'm just doing it backwards. I'm consolidating. So here's a simplified design. I have three collection points-- a regional sorting center, and then I have two recycling facilities. And you see even with a simple network, I have a number of different options and ways that I can take batteries from collection point to different recycling facilities. So I can model this like a network design problem. Hopefully you're getting very comfortable with this. I look at my objective function. I've got three terms. The first term is the fixed cost for those j terms, which are the sorting depos or recycling facilities. Do I open them or not? The second term is for the handling cost at each of those facilities. It's multiplied for all the flow that goes through it. And then the third term is the transportation links, the cost of moving between the facilities. Moving down the constraints, I'm subject to making sure I don't exceed my supply. I match my supply. I don't exceed my capacity at my facilities. The third is of linking or logical constraint. So if I use a facility, I need to make sure that I'm actually turning it on and paying for it. The next constraint is just conservation of flow. What goes in must go out. And then I have a constraint on the number of facilities I can have. These are all pretty standard, what we've been using for the last four weeks. So hopefully you're comfortable with this. If I give you some numbers on the simplified network, you should be able to put those into a network problem, into a mixed integer linear program. In this case, I'm showing it to you in a spreadsheet where I've got my objective function up here. My decision variables are in yellow, and I've got my series of constraints. And you have access to this spreadsheet if you want to see how it's set up. I can solve for that, and so it will give you a solution. Very simple, simple network design here. Here's the starting solution and the end solution, so the costs. And out of these number of different flow paths we have going from collection point through sorting depos to recycling facilities, we've determined that these are the paths to open. And so this is just like a network design. Now, what we're doing here, though-- it's more of a flow optimization. We're seeing how should products flow through my network. And so you can view it almost as a mirror image of a forward logistics network design. There are some studies that try to look at both the forward and the reverse logistics at the same time. But to be honest, it's not that common. Anyway, hopefully this gave you a good understanding of how you can use all the tools that we've already taught you about network design and mixed integer linear programs to help you with the design of the reverse flow.

## Key Take Aways
What are the key takeaways from this lesson? Well, we covered a lot of material, but it's all really related to each other. So we started off talking about distribution channels. How do I get my finished products from my last stage of manufacturing down to my consumers? And we identified that there are four general types of players out there. There's manufacturers. There are distributors, retailers, and you, the consumer. Now, every company has a customer that's usually the next downstream partner in their supply chain. And so I make the consumer a little different. That's the end consumer, the end customer. Now, these different channels can have all of these components or just a piece of it. Now, firms will use multiple flow paths for their different products. They might use distributors for some of their products. They might deliver directly from the manufacturer to their retailer locations for others. They might go straight to the stores instead of the DCs for others. The design, the specific flow, is a function of the supplier, the customer, and the product characteristics. So you'll see multiple distribution channels used by a same company. They will rarely use one supply chain or one distribution channel. Then I went into omni-channel, and this really changed everything. Having e-commerce with the internet, that changed a lot. But it's dwarfed by what's happened with the mobile commerce or m-commerce. Because this changes how consumers research for what they're going to buy, how they place their order, how they receive the product, how they pay the product, and how they return the product. So this opened up a whole wide number of options for consumers, which is great, but it introduced a lot of challenges for the retailers. And so retailers need to adjust where they ship from, where they ship to, and how they actually use their facilities and their workforce. As we discussed, there's a lot of complications. Because now I can move product from my DC, from a fulfillment center, or from a store itself. So this raises challenges in terms of inventory visibility, workforce use, and facility design. So there's a lot of challenges here that are being worked through. That's why it's so exciting, because we don't know what the final form is going to look like. Just like in the 1995 to 2000 time frame, no one was quite sure what online internet retailing would look like 10 or 20 years later. We're at that same place now for omni-channel. And finally, I talked about reverse logistics, which is a huge field. And there are many people who have done a lot of great work there. And this has always been important, but it's becoming more important due to online and omni-channel kind of distributions. Because if you order things online, you have a much higher probability of sending it back for return, about 30%. Almost a third of all materials are sent back. So if you combine the reverse logistics with the forward logistics, you have what's known as that closed loop supply chain. And so we talked about different things like containers and pallets and how those actually fit into this reverse logistics flow to form this closed loop supply chain. So if you have product coming up through reverse logistics, if it's getting returned, you have a variety of recovery options. You have reuse. You can repair, refurbish, or remanufacture. And we said that's really level of degree of quality, whether you make it good enough to use or remanufacture up to the same quality level as the initial product. You can cannibalize it for parts and components. You can recycle it for base materials, or you can dispose of it. So understanding and managing your reverse logistics is becoming much more important with the increase of online returns as well as increasing regulations. So that's what I wanted to cover. So I hope you enjoy the videos. Do the practice problems and go to the discussion forum. Talk about all these different things that we've been talking about.
