# week01 lesson1 intro to network models

(SC2x video lecture transcript)

## Introduction to Network Models
We're going to start our discussion in designing the physical flow in the supply chain by introducing network models. So let's start with some common terms. There are many different types of networks that we're going to see. But they all consist of the same two things-- nodes and arcs. Nodes are simply points. And they also sometimes are called vertices. And so these could be distribution centers, customers, regions, plants, whatever. For our purposes, they'll be probably actual facilities. But they can be more abstract things and other network problems. Then you're going to have arcs, or edges, or links. And these are the things that connect the different nodes. And so we can see, this could be a road network. This could represent flows. This could represent how cash is used on different projects. You can make it represent so many different things. That's the beauty of networks. Now, a network then or a graph-- sometimes, you see graph theory and network theory-- it's just a collection of nodes and arcs. And there's a whole large domain here. If you're really interested, you can look into network models. We're going to focus on them specifically in the supply chain space. So there's some problems that you're going to see more often than others in supply chain that use networks. Let's talk about them briefly. And you've seen some of these before. First one, shortest path, so this is the problem if I want to go from node i to node j-- let's say that's New York and the j is Los Angeles-- so I have a road network. So the shortest path problem is finding what is the shortest, least cost, usually distance, through the network. What's my path from i to j? And so this is pretty much-- we use this every day. If we use any kind of mapping tool or software, either on our phone or in our car. So this is a classic algorithm. It's kind of the root of almost every other algorithm that we're going to talk about. Then you've got the traveling salesman problem. And what the traveling salesman problem does-- let me just clean this up just a little bit, there we go-- so I've got these nodes still and these arcs. And what the traveling salesman problem says, let's start at one node. Let's call that the home. And what I want to do is find a path-- or a tour rather that visits each node once and only once and then returns home. So let's say I'm going to go here. Then I'm going to go there. And I want to find the tour that is the shortest distance. And this is a problem that's been around for hundreds of years, seems trivial, but can be quite complicated. And so this is known as the traveling salesman problem. Then you have another problem called vehicle routing. Let me clean this little network up again, erase this. And so what this is, it's a little bit different, but it's very much related to the traveling salesman problem. Let's say I have a distribution center or a source node. So this is where a bunch of supply or physical product is. And then I have a bunch of locations I need to deliver to, whether these are stores, customers, whatever. So I've got this source node, the square, and I want to visit each of the demand nodes. And so I want to find the shortest tours-- and this is each vehicle, because I have multiple vehicles-- and what tour will they take to visit all the different sites to deliver their product and return. So what you have is a bunch of vehicle tours, or vehicle routing problem. So it's the least cost, usually least distance, tours for vehicles to distribute all the product that's demanded from a single source node. Now, the problem we're going to focus on the most in this lesson and the next several lessons is known as the min cost flow problem. And so what that consists of is a little bit different. So we're trying to find the least cost flows of a certain product or a commodity through our network that satisfies demand at certain nodes. So I have certain demand nodes, call these customers. And I want to flow it-- maybe I have some distribution centers here, and I have some plants or sources. So I have product that goes from the plants to the DCs. And then each DC can go to each separate customer. This plant can also go here. And this DC could also distribute here. This plant could also go here. You see, I have all these different flows. And so I want to figure out the lowest cost solution from my source nodes to my ultimate demand nodes in the least cost manner. So we'll talk a lot more about this problem. But as you see, as you get into this deeper, you'll see they all are very much related, and they're all tied to networks. So let's talk about our approach in this module. Here are some things we're going to do. Three things we will do when we talk about network modeling. First, our whole focus here is on the insights. I want you to understand what are the trade-offs involved with design, and especially, in this case, design of the physical flow. What are the trade-offs? How do I quantify them? What are the decisions that I'm making? I want you to understand the common approaches that are used in practice and each of their strengths and weaknesses. Second thing we're going to do is we're going to formulate math programs for optimization. We're going to solve these design problems using optimization tools. And we're going to formulate them into something called a math program. Now, there are other ways that we can solve or design a physical flow of a network. I could use "seat of pants," for example, which means my experience. I know that I always want to have a distribution center here in Atlanta. I always know I want to have a certain structure, kind of based on experience. And you'd be surprised, or maybe not surprised, how often that happens. You can also use other techniques, like heuristics. So if you know your domain is of a certain volume, I know I need that over x number of distribution centers. You have rules of thumb that can be applied. You could also use simulation. So I have my demand nodes out there. And I simulate what the demand is going to be. And I test out different network structures, number of distribution centers, how I flow. And the simulation will tell you which one is better or worse. It will never tell you what to do or suggest a new solution. It'll only evaluate and rate the solutions or trials that you give them. But what we're going to focus on is the most common method. And like I said, it's using optimization. So I'm going to show you how to formulate a math program, not to solve an individual problem, but solve a class of problems. And that's the critical thing, because what you're going to see is there are classes of different problems. And no matter how the data changes, you're solving the same problem. So this will also open the door for you to understand the literature a little better. So I'm going to be a stickler on the notation, because it's important, because it provides clarity in making sure that you understand the problem. Third thing we're going to do is we're going to solve these things in spreadsheets, and specifically Excel and LibreOffice. Why do we use spreadsheets? They're the easiest tool to learn with. Everyone has access to them. They're all there. However, no one-- no one that I've ever run into uses spreadsheets to do network design. We use them for many other things in practice. But for supply chain network design, the problems are too complex, too sophisticated. So people always use some kind of specialized software package. I don't know any company that uses a spreadsheet. However, we're going to solve the exact same problems using spreadsheets. So it's just going to be a slightly smaller scale, because again, I'm here to make sure you understand the insights. So something we're not going to use-- or we're not going to do, we're not going to dive deep into optimization theory. We don't have the time. And I didn't set the prerequisites for this class. It can be a very deep literature. It's a whole field. So there are other courses and references available for those that are interesting going deep. We're going to focus on applying optimization within spreadsheets to solve these math programs, to mine for insights. That's what we're going to be doing in this course. So what's happening the rest of this lesson? We're only going to look at two problems. We're going to look at the transportation problem, which is kind of the simplest, network flow problem out there. We're going to work an example. We're going to formulate the model. We're going to solve it in a spreadsheet. Then we're going do the same thing for the next level of problem, called the transshipment problem. We're going to work an example, formulate the model, solve it in a spreadsheet. And then we're going to talk a little bit about, OK, how do you do this modeling approach? So that's what we're going to do for the rest of the lesson.

## The Transportation Problem
Let's get started with the simplest network flow model transportation problem. So let me introduce the problem we're going to work with, SandyCo. So here's the problem background. SandyCo is two facilities. These plants mine, clean, and sort sand for use in cement, children's play boxes, small beaches, whatever. They distribute this sand from their two plants to three different customer regions, where it is packaged and sold. So each plant has a specific maximum weekly supply of available sand, each region has an expected minimum weekly required demand, and the cost to distribute a ton of sand differs between each plant and each region pairing due to the distance and other factors. Very simple problem, and the objective is how much sand should SandyCo ship from each plant to each region each week to meet the demand at the lowest planned distribution cost? It's pretty straightforward. So how do I start this? I always like to draw a picture. And being in the United States, Western culture, I always go left to right. Don't know why, but I would have raw materials come in on the left, finish up at the right. So I'm starting with two plants, Plant 1 and Plant 2, and I've got three customer regions named Region 1, 2, and 3. Now, connecting these are my arcs, and these are the connections from each plant to each region. And so the objective here is to minimize the flow, so I need some notation, so let's get those out there. I've got these plants, I's, and the regions or J's, so my flow is going to be in IJ, from I to J. So these indices are simply subscripts I'm going to use to keep track of things because things will be a little complicated as we introduce more complexity to the model. So I always have some input data. I have available supply of sand from Plant I. I'm going to call that SI, and so this is S1. I have a certain amount of sand available there. S2 here, and I have a certain demand at each region. So I'm going to have a D1, a D2, a D3, and I need to make sure that I don't exceed the supply coming out of each plant and that I meet the minimum, at least, required demand at each customer region. Now, let me give you some notation, make sure we understand. S_I equals available supply of sand from Plant I in tons-- it's always good to give the units-- and this sign means for all I's in the set S, and the set S is essentially, I'm going to circle them, all my supply nodes. D_j, demand for sand in region J in tons-- good to give the units-- for all J's in the set D, and these are my demand nodes. And now I have this other input data that I need, the cost for sending sand from Plant I to region J. And this is dollars per ton, and so it's just a straight variable cost. And it's for all I's and J's, so that's the cost. So C11, C11 is the cost of sending material from Plant 1 to Region 1. Pretty straightforward. So my decision variable is this x_i,j-- how much am I going to flow on each one of these arcs? And so to solve this, I'm going to need some input data. So we'll talk about what the pros and cons and how you get this data, but let's assume we have it right now. So I know my supply at Plant 1 is 100 units or 10 tons. Plant 2 has a slightly bigger capacity, 125. My demands for 1 are 25 and it's 95 tons and 80 tons, and I said this is tons per week. And then I have my costs. Costs for moving from Plant I to Region 1 is a $250 per ton. From 2 to 3 is $460 per ton. So you have all the information you need here. So let's think about what are we trying to do? I'm going to try to minimize all the flows because this is the only thing I'm deciding, this x_i,j. Everything else is given to me. It's input data. I want to find each of the x_i,j's to minimize the total cost. What's the total cost going to be? Well, it's simply going to be the sum of C11 times x11 plus C12 times x12, C13 times x13, and so forth, the sum of all those. The flow going from each point to each region times the cost of each one, I'm going to sum those all up. But I can't just find any solution because if I'm going to minimize that and I try to solve that, the minimum cost flow would be zero, so I have to make sure that I meet all my demand and I have to make sure that I don't exceed my supply. So how do we do that? Well, this is what math programming allows us to do. It's a formal structure to solve this problem. So let me just step back and explain math programming, the formulation. So the objective of any math program is to find an extreme solution. Extreme solutions are minimums or maximums, so you're going to either minimize or maximize this function subject to meeting some constraints. The variable, the decision variables, almost always x's-- x's, y's, or z's. It's just common nomenclature. So this is what a math program looks like. So let me talk you through it. The first line is what's known as the objective function. I want to minimize this function f_x and remember, a function is just an equation. And that the value of that equation is z given the different x's that I use, so my objective function is the thing, the equation I'm trying to minimize or maximize. In this case, I'm minimizing. The decision variables have to be in the objective function because if they're not, then why are they decision variables? These are the things you're trying to decide. In our network flow model, it's the x_i,j's at this time. So these are the variables I'm trying to decide, and so I'm trying to minimize this function, and we'll describe what that looks like, subject to constraints. And so this g_x, which is another function with x's in it because I have to have those decision variables in some of my constraints because if not, it's unconstrained and it won't be the answer that you think it would be. So that g_x has to be greater than or equal to whatever, some b. Now, when we talk about constraints, what's typically done, you talk about a left-hand side and a right-hand side, and it's the left and right of the relationship. In this case, I'm minimizing something, so I want to make sure some function is greater than some minimum value, and I'll explain these and show the example in a second. But these constraints always take the same form. Your right-hand side is always input data. All your variables, put them on the left-hand side. It just makes life a little easier as you go forward and set these up. And then you have this last set of their constraints, but they're special-- non-negativity conditions. Decision variables typically cannot be negative. Yeah, there might be special cases, but in nothing that we do will you have negative flow. So this is a standard form. You'll see this over and over again, but it can take different flavors, and it really depends on the type of functions for the objective function and the constraints. If they're all linear, which means they're additive, C11 times x11 plus C11 times x12. So if they're additive in that way, then they're linear, and we're going to spend a lot of time on linear programs. Now, if they multiply-- say x1 times x2, so two decision variables are multiplied-- we are now non-linear, or if one of the terms is squared. We're going to stay away from those for awhile. But there's another case called integer programs where the x can't be any continuous variable, it can only be integers. And there's a special case called the binary integer program where the variables can only be 0 or 1, and we'll deal with those a little later. If you have a program that uses both linear programming with continuous variables, like the flow-- x can be whatever, 1 to 100, it's a continuous variable-- but you also have some integer variables, then it's known as MILP-- a mixed integer linear program. We're going to spend a lot of time on MILPs. So this is the form. Let's talk about SandyCo. Let's formulate it. Here's my little picture. You see I've got my two plants, I've got my three regions, I've got all the same nomenclature. I've defined all the terms. Here's my math program. It looks very compact. That's why we love these, because I can solve any transportation problem with this formulation. I don't care what the data is. But let me just spread it out and explain what this means. So let's start with the objective function. So the objective function, the z-- I'm minimizing this function, and all that these summations mean, let we read what this equation means or what it says. z is equal to the summation of all I's and for all J's for c_i,j times x_i,j. So what does this mean? I'm going to look at this. This is the internal, and I'm going to say, OK, for every I-- let's say I is 1-- I'm going to look for all the different J's-- so 11 times x11 plus C12 times x12 plus c13 times x13, and that's what all these are saying. So this is when I equals 1. Then I want to flip this one up and it's going to go to I is 2, and I do the same thing. So all I'm doing is summing up all the different arcs, the cost times the flow. So if there's no flow on it, it incurs no cost. So that's the objective function. Now I've got two sets of constraints. So this is, again, I'm minimizing this function subject to the first constraint is simply a supply constraint. I want to make sure that everything coming out of each I, each plant, is less than my supply there, less than or equal to. So what this is saying x11 plus x12 plus x13 is simply all of these arcs. I'm saying the sum of those, everything coming out, has to be less than whatever my S1 is. I can't ship more sand out of a plant than I say is available, and I do the same thing for S2. So this one constraint might have more equations. In fact, how many equations will it have? Well, it's going to be for every I within the set S. How many I's do I have in S? Two, two plants, so I know there'll be two equations. So that's the supply constraint. Let's move down. This next one is the demand constraint. I want to make sure that all the flows coming into a certain J have to exceed or be equal to the demand at each one of those, so what is this going to look like? It's simply going to be summing for everything coming into each of the regions, x11 plus x21, has to be greater than or equal to D1. That's a saying that whatever comes in, it better be enough to meet the demand that I've requested. And you have the same thing for D2 and for D3 because I know there's three of these equations because this is going to be for every J, every destination, in this set D. How many destinations or regions so I have? Three, so know I need three equations there and two equations there. So hopefully you're getting a flavor for what this is doing, and then the last set of constraints I have are those non-negativities. And all this is saying that each one of them has to be greater than or equal to zero. Now, you might say, well, why are you making this so wide? Why are you filling up all this space? Well, I want to demonstrate something to you. You see how this variable x11, it's in the objective function and it's also in the constraints? You need to make sure that they link up because the objective function is subject to meeting all these constraints. So the beautiful thing about math programming is once you set up these equations, we can figure out how to solve it and it'll make those trade-offs for you. And so it'll find the best solution, the min cost solution, subject to meeting the supply constraints, the demand constraints, and the non-negativity constraints. So what does this look like in a spreadsheet, because that's how we're going to solve them, remember? OK, here is that exact same formulation in the spreadsheet. I'm going to go back. Here's all the models, so let me just clean this up a little bit. Get rid of my x1 there. You see I have two supply constraints, I have three demand constraints, and I've got one, two, three, four, five, six non-negativity constraints, and I've got my objective function in the spreadsheet. I've got my objective function up here in cell B3, and then I've got my two supply constraints and I've got my three demand constraints. I'll explain the non-negativities in a second. So let's talk through what I got here. This is my objective function. It's a sum product. You should know this function. It's C5, which all of my decision variables are in the row from C5 to H5, times everything that's in C6 to H6, which are just the c_i,j's. So this are the x_i,j's, and this row are the c_i,j's. So some product-- it's just multiplying. Now I've said this isn't the solution. I'm saying what is the cost if I put a 1 in each of the decision variables? So what I'm doing here, I'm forcing the solution. I'm saying, what would the cost be if I ship everything from everywhere? So that's what's showing in this spreadsheet right now. Now, here on the constraints for my supply constraints, for each of my left-hand sides, I've got this left-hand side, which is just the sum product of, again, the decision variables that are in row 5, C5 to H5, multiplied by what I've got in my row right here. So this is going to be equal to what I'm flowing in x11 times this variable 1 plus this times this plus this times this. So essentially, this is saying that everything coming out of Plant 1 can't exceed 100. That's my right-hand side, and you have the same thing for Plant 2. For the demand constraints, you have the exact same thing. That's the beauty here. This whole problem is being solved with two sum products, one here and then one in each of these left-hand sides of the constraints. And so here, I'm saying that for this model in row 15, cell I, this is equal to the sum product of what I have in my constraints, which is a 1 in E15 and a 1 in H15, times what I have in my decision variables. So it's going to add in what I'm shipping 1 to 3, and what I'm shipping from 2 to 3-- in other words, anything going into Region 3-- and that has to exceed 80. So this is one formulation. This is kind of an expanse of formulation. There's other ways you could do this to represent it that would both be correct. So here's an alternative model and spreadsheet, and you see I still have my objective function in cell C2 this time, and it's just the sum product of C5 to E6, which is just this. I always make my decision variables and those things yellow. You can do your own nomenclature, but it just makes it easier for me to see, and I'm going to multiply that by the costs. So this is a little more compact, and then I have all my other constraints are down here. Supply constraints, these are just sums for each of the supplies. So this one is summing across, this one is something across here, and then my constraints down here for demand, I'm summing simply the columns. And so for Region 1, I'm summing these. For Region 2, I'm summing these. Region 3, I'm summing these. So you see it's a very compact form. So if I have a really large problem, you might want to see it this way. I personally always prefer the larger, more spread out one because you see the matrices, and we'll talk more about this as we go on. But I could even make it more compact, and this is the exact same thing, and these spreadsheets are in the resources so you can play with them. They solve the exact same problem. However, they have different pros and cons. These two formulations, formulation two and three, are much more compact, but they're solving the same problem. It's just you have to look a little deeper and say, OK, what is this number? How does it tie together compared to that first formulation I showed you, where everything is right out there? You can look at it and immediately see what the model is saying. So next, we're going to go in and solve the model, but let's stop here.

## Solving the Transportation Problem
We've set the model up in a spreadsheet. Now, let's solve it. So solving math programs in spreadsheets, we've got good news and bad news. Good news-- most spreadsheets today, whether they're free or you pay for them, have linear and nonlinear solvers in them. And they're available. That's awesome. This is something that's great, because they're out there. They're easy to use. And in many cases, like for LibreOffice, it's free. Bad news-- they all differ in how to load them, open them, and all the little details. However, the good news is, once you get them open, they don't differ that much. Just like the math formulation is for a class of problems, there's only so many things that they can differ on. So once you open them, the solvers are really very similar in how to use them. However, opening them, loading them into your spreadsheet, that's all different. So look at the reference document. I'm not going to spend any time on this video in showing you how to load the solver for your specific spreadsheet. So if you haven't already loaded your solver, stop the video, go load it, then come back. I'll wait. All right, for those of you who are ready to go, let's go forward. So we have SandyCo, and this is what we did in the last video. We have it set up, remember, cell B3 is my objective function. It's simply a sum product. My decision variables are in yellow. And it's from cell C5 to H5. And they're all the ones in yellow. Let me just circle them. Hopefully, everyone understands that. Those are my decision variables. And I've got my two supply constraints in rows 9 and 10 and my three demand constraints and rows 13 through 15. So whatever I mean-- if I'm in Excel, whatever your version-- I'm going to open up Solver. So if you don't know how to do this, stop the video, go to the resource argument, learn how to open it up in your version of your spreadsheet. So in Excel-- I'm going to show this both in Excel and then in LibreOffice, just so you can see both versions and see how they really don't differ-- you're going to come up with this little window. And you can see it ask me for my objective, min, max, changing variables, all that kind of stuff. Let me talk you through it. So the first thing you want to do is you want to set the objective. This is the objective function. And so the objective function is simply going to be cell B3. That's your SUMPRODUCT equation that's the function that you want to minimize or maximize. Then the next thing you do, you click that you want to minimize it. And then you're going to be asked, OK, what are my changing variables? Why they call them changing variables is beyond me. They're decision variables. They're the x, i, j's. So that's going to be C5 to H5, those decision variables that I put in yellow in the spreadsheet. Next, you're going to be asked to add the constraints. So you're going to click this little Add button. And then this little side window is going to pop up. And look at it, it asks for a left hand side and a right hand side, a left hand side and a right hand side-- pretty straightforward, everything that we've been talking about so far. So I'm going to add in that for each one of the constraints. So this first one is the non-negativity constraints. So I said that C5 to H5, all my decision variables, are greater than zero. Now, actually this is redundant-- and I'll explain that in a second-- because there's also this little check box down here, because non-negativity constraints are so widespread, they have a little check box-- so to make sure that all your variables are non-negative. But just in case, we put one here. And what I'm doing, I'm saying all of those variables-- C5 to H5-- is greater than or equal to zero. The next set of constraints that I want to add are the demand regions. And so all I did is I'm saying the left hand side-- and all I'm doing is saying this set of cells. And I have to say that it's going to be greater than-- so I do a little-- I make sure I select the right relationship-- and it's greater than this set of variables. You don't have to do each cell to each cell. You can do the array, or these set of cells. And then you do the same thing for the supply. So it's I9 to I10-- that's these cells-- less than or equal to K9 to K10-- beautiful thing. So it's very easy. Three quick little clicks, and now I've got all my constraints in. The next thing I want to do, I want to make sure I pick the method. There are many different methods in there. There's non-linear problems. There's evolutionary problems, solving approaches. Just pick Simplex, if it's there, and I'll explain for LibreOffice in a second. And then once you have it all in, you press the Solve button. And that's it. It's really simple. You'll get a solution like this. Another window will pop up once it solves. And if it doesn't, if it has a problem, it'll tell you, hey, found a problem, couldn't solve it, or whatever. And that's when you have to go back and fix your mistakes. But if it works, it'll say it found of a solution. It'll say, do you want to keep the solutions, or do you want to restore the original values? We're going to keep the solutions. You can also get a bunch of reports. I'm not going to talk about these too much. Again, we're going to focus on applying them. I'll talk about them a little later in a future lesson, but this is a little deeper than I want to go for right now. So all I want to do is hit this OK. And if you do that, then what happens is your spreadsheet looks like this. So now, this is my objective function. And it's been solved. This is my solution. You see how all the variables changed. And you'll see, hopefully, that all the constraints work. So you'll see that, in the formulation, even though I had this less than or equal to sign here in this cell, which is H, I, J9, it really doesn't do anything in the model. I could have this say AAAA, or type in anything, or leave it blank, it's really just for us for a visual cue, because remember, when you set this up in Excel, you had to pick it when you're opening Solver. So having this sign here really doesn't do anything. It's just a visual cue. It's helpful when you're looking at the model. So what is my solution? My solution is to ship 25 tons of sand from Plant 1 to Region 1, 75 tons of sand from Plant 1 to Region 3, 95 tons from Plant 2 to Region 2, and 5 tons from Plant 2 to Region 3. So my total cost is going to be $66,625 a week. And there's my solution. Now, we'll dive into what this means in a second. But let's go through and do the exact same thing in LibreOffice, for those of you using this tool. Exact same spreadsheet, you open it up, and you have a slightly different looking Solver window. But it's really not that different. So I've got what they call the target cell, which is the objective function. It's B3. You pick whether you want to minimize or maximize. You're changing cells. Why they don't use the word decision variables is beyond me. It's the same thing. And then it's actually a nicer interface to adding constraints. So you don't have to open up a little side window. You just put them right in. There are the non-negativity constraints. These are the demand constraints. And these are the supply constraints. So then I'm going to pick-- under Options, make sure you pick Linear Solver. If you pick these Evolutionary ones, they're a little bit different. You can play with them if you want. But to solve a linear program, which this is, you want to use a Linear Solver. It's faster. And the other ones are used for slightly more complex situations. So once I do that, I press the Solve button. And boom, I get this little window, saying you finished. Here's your solution. Do you want to keep the results? You keep the results. This is what you get. This should look very familiar. If you get a different answer in LibreOffice than you did in Excel, then you did something wrong, because the math is the same. An optimal solution is an optimal solution. And so the solution here is the exact same thing we just saw. So what does this solution look like? Well, here is a map of it, or a little picture. So I've got my two plants-- Plant 1 and Plant 2. And you can see, I'm shipping 25 from Plant 1 to Region 1, 75 from Plant 1 to Region 3, and so on. And I can just simply sum back and see that Plant 1 had 100 units at capacity, and I'm at full capacity there. So I'm using all of Plant 1. Plant 2, I'm only using-- what is that, 25-- I'm not using 25 tons worth of capacity a week. So I'm running about 80% capacity there. So if I look at this, I can also look at demand, make sure I'm meeting all my demand, and I am. And so you can look at this, and you can start saying, well, you know what, OK, this my optimal solution. But what if R1 starts asking for more? If they have any more need for demand, what am I going to have to do? Well, I'm going to be shifting things away. So you start looking at the solution and start understanding and interpreting what it means, because a lot of what this means here is I say, you know what, this solution, it might be lowest cost, but boy, I'm operating Plant 1 really tightly. Maybe I want to shift some things away from that. And it looks like R1 is only supported by Plant 1. Maybe I want to force some redundancy. So this is the first inkling of what a math program can do for you. It isn't just there to give you one answer and then you walk away. It helps you make a decision. It's a decision support tool. But let's keep going. And so I want to continue on this by making a slightly more complex problem with a transshipment problem.

## Transhipment Problem
Let's move to the more complicated problem. But again, it builds right on the transportation problem, the transshipment problem. So we're going to have a very similar example. We're still dealing with SandyCo. Still has two plants, and they mine, clean, and sort sand. But now they've added two packaging centers. And what these packaging centers do, it takes the raw sand and puts then into bags and whatever. And then those are shipped out to the regions where the customers are. So what we've done here is we've created two echelons, essentially, in our network. So each plant still has a maximum supply. And each region still has a demand that has to be met. And the cost differs whether I move it from plant to packaging center or from a certain packaging center to a region. And my objective really hasn't changed. I want to know how much sand should SandyCo ship from each plant to each packaging center and then from each packaging center to each region, each week, to meet the demand at the lowest plan distribution costs. Really the same problem, just a little bit of intermediate transshipment hubs added to the mix. So let's draw a picture. So I've got my two plants. I've got my three regions. All's good. Nothing's changed from the transportation problem. But now I've got these two centers, these two packing centers that I label A and B. So my flow is going to go from these plants to these packing centers. And from each of these packing centers, you can go to any one of the three regions. All my notation has not changed. My origins, i's, and my destinations are j's. My supply, demand, and cost have not changed. And my flow, my decision variables have not changed. It's still I'm trying to decide how much to flow on each arc from i to j in tons of sand per week. My data hasn't changed. The supply hasn't changed. The demand hasn't changed. So I think it's changed a little bit of these costs because now I have these new arcs. Instead of going straight from the plant to the region, I go from plant to each center. So C_1A cost me $190 a ton. And then going from A to 1 would be 175. So if I wanted to ship sand from P1 to region one going through distribution center C, center A, would be $365 per ton. All right, so how do we formulate this? Again, it doesn't change that much. Here's a formulation. And let's go through it line by line. The first line is the objective function. Absolutely no change. I'm still minimizing the sum of all the costs on all the arcs times the flow on each of those arcs. My supplies constraints hasn't changed. I still have this for all i's in S, which there's only two of them. So there will be two supply constraints. Demand, this is making sure demand is met for all j's within D. And there's three of those. Hasn't changed. And then let me jump down here to the non-negativity. All our flow still has to be in the real world, has to be zero or greater. The only thing that's new is this constraint. This is known as a constraint for the conservation of flow. So let me talk a little bit about this because it's a little complicated, but it's critical for any network problem that we have. Because what we've done so far, we had two types of nodes. We had supply nodes at these plants where stuff comes from. And then we had demand or sink nodes where stuff when to. Now we're introducing these transshipment or intermediate nodes where whatever flows in has to flow out. You can't accumulate product. How do we enforce that? Well let's take an example. Let's say I have a node j. Pick whatever your intermediate node is. And I'm going to look at everything coming into it, all the x_i,j's. So everything going into j, I'm going to sum those. Sum for all is of x_i,j. So x_1 to node j. x_2 to node j. x_3 to node j. All the things coming in. And then I'm going to look at everything going out. And all I did was flip the subscripts. So it's x_j,i, and I'm going to sum this over i again. And so for node j, it's everything going from node j to node 1, to node 2, to node 3, to node 4, whatever. So what's coming in and what's going out has to be equal. Right? So all I've done is this x_i,j. The first term is this. The second term is this. So if they're equal to each other, if I subtract one from the other, I should get 0. So my constraint is simply saying the sum of the input minus the sum of the output has to equal 0 for all nodes that are not in demand nodes and that are not supply nodes. In other words, only those intermediate nodes have to have conservation of flow. What goes in needs to go out. Very straightforward. And it's a nice easy, elegant way to enforce that. So we'll enforce this for any node that is a transshipment point, a cross dock, a mixing center. Hubs sometimes are called this. So the idea is I've got three types of nodes now-- source nodes where stuff comes from, demand nodes where stuff goes to, and transshipment nodes where stuff goes in and out and doesn't accumulate. So how do I formulate this? Should look very similar. I've got my objective function up here in cell B3. And it's simply the sum product of my decision variables times my cost on each arc, because that's the only cost I have so far. You see I broke the arcs up between the ones in columns C through F are the plants to the centers. And then from G to L, there are the flows from the center to the regions. Pretty straightforward. And then I have the same supply constraints in rows nine and 10. The same demand constraints in rows 13 through 15. And then my conservation of flow. So let's look at row 18 and see what it's doing. This is going for center A. So I'm saying, OK, because this is just the sum product here in cell M18, sum product of this row, this array, times my decision variables up here in row five. It's going to be this variable in cell C5 times 1 plus what's in x in cell E5 times 1 minus what's in x A1 which is in cell G5 five minus what's in cell H5 minus what's in cell I5. So it's what's the inbound is in columns C through F minus the outbound, which is columns G through L. And again, the reason why I love this formulation, you see the whole matrix. So you can get a sense of what this is saying. These are all the inbounds to A. And here's all the outbounds to A. Here are all the outbounds from B. And here are all the inbounds to B. The logic just hits you right in the face. The other beautiful thing, the equations that you use to solve this are really straightforward. All the constraints here are really the same thing. It's a sum product of its own array times the decision variables up here in row five. So you really only have two equations in this whole math program. Now the downside of this formulation-- and we'll talk about this later-- is that it gets big. It gets quite big. But I love it when you're trying to figure out a problem because you can see the structure of the problem. All right, we have it in the spreadsheet. You can play it around and put different numbers in and see what it does. But let's solve it. So here's a spreadsheet. I'm in Excel. I open up the solver. You can see I put the objective function in, my changing cells or decision variables. And then I've got the constraints. First, the non-negativity constraints which again are redundant because I can just do this. Then you've got the region demand constraints in rows 13 to 15. Then I've got the supply constraints in rows 18-- oops, the supply constraints in nine and 10. There we go. And then in 18 and 19 are my flow conservation constraints. That's the only new things you've added here really. I make sure I'm solving Simplex. And then I solve it. And this is what you get. It's a solution. And let's look at what it's saying. It's saying shipping 75 tons from plant one to center B. I can just read my decision variables across here and I can see what the solution is for $69,200 a week. Now, let's look at in a picture because sometimes it's easier to see. So here's my solution. And there's my input data. So let's look at this for a second. Now what we have, look at plant one is not operating at capacity. So it has a capacity of 100 tons a week. And so it's only shipping out 75. Plant two now is operating at full capacity. That's interesting. If I look at the distribution centers or the packing centers rather, I can see that B gets served by both plant one and plant two. And plant two only goes to A. And then A is the only one who serves region one. So if I look at region one I'm only served by one plant. Look at plant three and plant two. The sand, I don't whatever sand I receive here at region two, it could come from plant one or plant two. I assume it's fungible, it's a commodity. So that's actually a nice thing, a little more resilient. I have a little more backup, a little more flexibility. Region one out here, if its demand suddenly goes up, that's a little bit of a problem because I'm only being single sourced. We'll talk about this in later lessons. But what I want to make sure you start doing is when you look at a solution, don't just say OK, there's my answer, done. Does it make sense? Does it fit everything? Are there any issues that are missed? As we talk more about this, that's the more important component of using one of these models. Not just being able to formulate it, get the math and get a number, we can do that. But the real thing is how do I interpret that result? What does it mean? Where are the strengths? Where are the weaknesses? Because these models are all decision support. They are not the final solutions.

## Key Take Aways
All right, let's take a big, deep breath and focus on what we've learned in this lesson, because it was a big lesson. We did a lot of different things. What are the key takeaways? Well, we introduced two basic network flow models. The first model was the transportation model. So this is where I'm going from origins to destinations, and I'm flowing in. I'm trying to find the minimum cost. We introduced the idea of a math formulation. We have an objective function, which is what I'm circling right now, subject to a series of constraints. And in this case, the transportation problem has supply constraints that everything flowing out of an i to all the different j's has to be less than or equal to the supply that's there. And then you have demand constraints. And these simply say that everything flowing into a certain demand node has to at least be equal to the demand that's required there, the D's. And all my flow has to be 0 or greater. So this is the granddaddy of flow problems, the transportation problem. We then made it a little more complicated, because that's what we like to do. And I added what's known as hubs, or transshipment points. Let me just circle those. So now, we have sources. We have sinks, or demand nodes. And I have transshipment hubs, or mixing centers. And the only difference between the transportation problem and the transshipment problem is that I have to add in these flow conservation constraints for any of the transshipment hubs. So this is simply saying what goes in must be what goes out. So what goes in for A has to be equal to what goes out. What goes in to B has to be equal to what goes out. And it's very logical. You need this to enforce a network structure. Now, a lot of limitations-- these are the simplest problems in the world, even though they're complicated the first time you go through. But we had very simple cost structures. We only had variable cost on the arcs. There were no fixed arc costs. There no node costs. In fact, I assumed that you're going to use every single one of these. I didn't have you decide which plant to use, or which DC, or give you the choice of whether to open one or not. We ignored that and said, you're going to use everything that's there. The question is, how much are you going to use it. We had a single commodity. I assumed that the sand you produced here at plant one was the same one desired at each of the customer locations. There isn't specific commodities or product types. I assumed that they're all fungible. What I produce in one can flow to anywhere-- single commodity. I also assumed a deterministic solution. My demand is a constant. It's an input. I didn't allow any variability of the demand, of the supply, or the flow. This gets more complicated-- and we'll talk about this later on-- but for the first cut, we assumed very deterministic solutions. Also we assumed everything was uncapacitated. I had no capacity constraints here at my distribution centers or at my plants. I just had a supply limitation. But you could think, it'd be a little more complicated if I said, you know what, this distribution center or packaging center A can only handle a certain level. And then that would force things to happen. And we'll get into that. Same thing with arcs, it might be that this arc can only take a certain amount of volume. We assumed total uncapacitation. There is no capacity limits. Infinite can flow. And so you can kind of see the path we're going to do. We're going to reduce some of these limitations, loosen some of these assumptions. And the models get a little more complex, but they get a little more realistic. We also did something that's really fundamental. And you'll use this throughout the course and probably beyond in your career. And that's the whole idea of formulating a model. And there is a classic process for this. The first thing you have to do-- and these are kind of common sense-- read and understand the problem thoroughly. 90% of the time, if you have a problem, you didn't read the problem that carefully. And in this class, and in other ones, if English is not your first language, read it twice, because a lot of times, the wording is critical. Once you understand that, figure out, OK, what are the things I'm trying to decide? What are my decision variables-- what the spreadsheets call changing variables? What are the things I'm trying to decide? Then you say, OK, what is the thing I'm trying to minimize or maximize? What is the objective function? Am I minimizing cost? Am I maximizing profit? What am I trying to do? Then you say, OK, what am I subject to? What are my constraints? I need to make sure everything coming out of a supply node doesn't exceed supply. Everything going into a demand node has at least be the required demand. I need to make sure that for transshipment hubs, what goes in, what goes out-- all the different constraints. And then you identify upper and lower bounds. For this, we only had a lower bound on the decision variable, zero. You couldn't be below zero. But there might be cases where you need to have a certain level, a minimum. And then you solve it. It's very important that you understand your assumptions and limitations. There is often a naive assumption that these complex models are perfect. And they are not. They all have assumptions. They all have limitations. They're models. They are never reality. They're abstractions of reality. And as I move closer and closer to reality, it gets more complicated. And we're building in more assumptions. So the most important takeaway from this is be cognizant and recognize the assumptions you're making in any model that you put together. All right, that's it for this lesson. So please use the comments for any questions. If you have suggestions, let us know. Use a discussion forum. And I'll let you look at Dexter, wondering how he can optimize his way to his own ball through the fence.
