# week01 lesson2 facility location models

(SC2x video lecture transcript)

## Facility Location Models
OK so we've discussed network flow models and we've shown how to formulate them and solve them. In all those models though, we assumed that every facility that was there was used. Now we're going to restrict that problem a little bit and focus in on the decision of which facilities to use, which facilities to open. So this whole lesson is about facility location models. So we're going to start very simple in this first segment-- in this lesson-- and we're going to start talking about continuous single facility problems. By continuous, what I mean is you're on a Euclidean Space and I can place a facility anywhere within that space. So I just want to find the optimal space and it's a single facility, which means I'm only looking for one location and we're going to talk are two different ways to do this. One is known as the Weber problem and that's finding the minimum weighted distance from each of the points that I have and the other is known as center of gravity, which comes from physics. And we'll explain these and we'll talk about the strengths and weaknesses of each of them. Then we're going to go and look at a slightly different approach. Instead of having a continuous set of options to pick from, where you can have any kind of location, you're going to have a set of candidate locations and sometimes this is called a network facility location problem. And we're going to solve this using our old friend the mixed integer linear program which we started talking about in previous lessons, and we're going to show how to formulate it and we're going to show how to solve it in spreadsheets. And then we're going to expand it to multiple locations because we want to talk about the trade-offs-- because there are a lot of trade-offs involved with having a single facility, two facilities, three-- and you're going to have trade offs between the costs-- different types of costs-- as well as level of service and we'll express those and show those, formulate the problems and solve them. And then finally we'll wrap it up, talking about sensitivity analysis using these models because as we've tried to get across, the benefit of these models is not necessarily just to come up with an answer, you know, the answer's six, the real benefit is that it allows you to explore the options in the robustness of a solution. You can explore other potential solutions so it really gives you an idea of understanding the problem better-- that's the real benefit of using these models. All right so let's get started.

## Continuous Location Models
Let's start with the simplest location model, the single location model on a continuous surface. So the problem objective of this is to find one location that minimizes the transportation costs from this point to K different destination points. This is also known as the Weber problem, named after Alfred Weber, who first formulated this problem in the early 1900s. So the idea here is, I'm on a Euclidean Space. So it's a tabletop. I can go directly from point to point. There's no underlying network. The center location could be anywhere on the space. So think of a tabletop, and I'm putting one cup anywhere on that table. And the transportation cost is calculated as the distance multiplied by the volume or the weight. So if I have something that's 10 units going 2 miles, that would be 20 unit miles-- same thing as 20 units going 1 mile. So it's the transportation cost, distance times the weight. All right, so here's what the formulation would look like. It should look kind of familiar. I'm minimizing something, and I have my locations. Each location is subscripted k. So I'm saying I'm trying to minimize this function, and the minimized distance is going to be z. So z is equal to the summation for all the points k within this larger set K. And each of those is multiplied by its weight, w_k, times the distance. And that's what this function is, D_k of x, y. So x and y are my decision variables. And this is the x-coordinate, or horizontal coordinate, and the y-coordinate for my center point. So I'm trying to minimize this distance. And my two decision variables are x and y. Those are the variables that I'm trying to find the answer to. So because I'm in Euclidean space, this distance is simply the square root of the sum of the squared differences in the x and the y directions. So this is, x_k is, for the k-th location, or the point, it's its x-coordinate. And here's its y-coordinate. And I'm subtracting off from the center location, squaring that, adding it to that squared difference of the y location-- square root. And that gives me the distance from the k-th point to the center point. So I want to find and select the x and y that minimizes this function. All right, so we can solve this in Excel. And let me give you an example. And we'll use this example for the rest of this week. The New England Root Beer Distributors-- NERD. And at NERD, we serve root beer in New England. And we sell our products currently in just three cities-- Boston, Springfield, and Providence, Rhode Island. So here we are up in Boston. Springfield is out west. And Providence is down south just a little bit. So this is our market. And each one of the cities sells a certain amount of root beer and marketing is giving that Boston sells 425 units. Call it per week, or whatever time period: Providence sells 320, and Springfield sells 220. And the question is, where should I set up my distribution center to service these three markets? Now, I've given each of the cities a coordinate. So they have an x and a y coordinate. So Providence is at x-coordinate 86, y-coordinate 40. Boston is at 100, 80. And Springfield, over to the west, is 20, 60. So these are x, y coordinates. I think it's centered down here on New Haven down here, further to the left. It'll make sense a little later. And so what we're trying to do is find where is the location that would minimize the weighted distance. So where in this triangle is the distance that minimizes the distance traveled for each one of the units, for 425 units from Boston, 320 units Providence, and for Springfield, 220 units. So where will I locate that? If you think about it, you know that it's going to be somewhere within this triangle. There's no way that you'll have a shorter distance that falls outside. And I'll let you think about that, and prove that to yourself. So let's see how we solve this in a spreadsheet. This is restating the problem. And here's my function I'm trying to minimize. And so all I've done is taken the table, and put it into a spreadsheet. You can see that column B shows the weight for each city. Column C is the x-coordinate. Column D is the y-coordinate. And column E, what I've got is the distance. Now, it's finding the distance from what? Well, it's from these x, y coordinates that I put down here in cells C6 and D6. So what this is saying is that Boston is 17.54 miles away from this location. So if I typed in different values down here in cell C6 and D6, that location would change. Column F is simply the weighted distance. I multiply it by the weight for each of the cities. And then down here in cell F6, I'm simply summing them up. Because what do I want to do? I want to find the x and y-coordinates that minimize this value, that's currently 31,179. I can do this using Solver. So what's my objective function? It's F6. It's this cell right here. I'm trying to minimize that. And what cells am I going to change? The cells that are right here in the x and y, that I have highlighted in yellow. Now, for constraints, it's a little different, because I'm solving this with a non-linear solver, because this is not a linear equation. I have to put max and mins. So I set the x-coordinate max to 200, the y-coordinate max to 200. And I'm making sure that they're not going to be negative. And so that's all that these constraints are doing. They're just putting bounds on my decision variables-- have to be greater than 0 and less than 200. But since the furthest I can be-- I'll never be more than 180 away-- so it's pretty safe. Now I'm using a non-linear solving function. Make sure you pick that. If I press Solve, it'll tell you where the answer is. It'll be 89, 66. So this is the location that minimizes, like I said, the weighted distance from each of these cities. Now we're going to talk about a different approach called center of gravity. Center of gravity is something that comes to us very intuitively-- comes from physics. And the way to think about it is, suppose that this triangle was made out of a very rigid material like plywood. And I had each of the cities, instead of the weight being units of root beer, let's say they were pounds or kilograms. So I had 420 kilograms here at Boston. I had 320 kilograms here at this location, and I have 220 kilograms here. What center of gravity is trying to do is say, OK, where would I put a center point to balance all of these? If I had this rigid board, where would I put my finger to balance them all? It's the point of balance, or the centroid. This is what center of gravity means. So how would I find that? Well, all you're going to do is take the weighted average of each of the x and y coordinates. So let's look at the x one. So I would say that the x for the centroid-- that's what this is-- going to be equal to 425, which is the weight of Boston, divided by 965, which is simply the sum of these weights, just summing them all up. So this is the percent of the volume that Boston represents times its x-coordinate of 100. I'll do the same thing for Providence. 320 divided by 965 times its x coordinate, and the same thing for Springfield. And I get a weighted average of 77. Do the same thing for the y coordinates, and I get a y coordinate of 62. So this tells me my center of gravity is that blue dot, right there at x coordinate 77, y coordinate 62. Why are they different? I bet some of you thought they'd be the same. They're different because they're doing very different things. The Weber one, the single location up here, the red dot, minimized the distance times the weight. The centroid-- what its actually doing if you look at it-- it's minimizing the distance squared times the weight. So in other words it's implicitly over-weighting the further locations. So the further it's away, it's like a seesaw. The further I am on on that seesaw, the more my weight is going to count, and not just in a linear fashion, but in a squared fashion. This is how physics works. This is what a centroid is. It's not, however, minimizing the distance times the weight. So when we use this, we want to use the Weber method. We want to use the method that minimizes distance and volume, not distance squared volume. That makes sense in physics, in the physical world. Doesn't make sense when I'm designing a network. So picking between using center of gravity and Weber method for the minimum distance weight, we want to use that Weber point. However, the Weber point's not perfect. And so here I'm showing what the average distances are. And you'll see that the center of gravity, the average weighted distance for location is higher than it is for the Weber one. However, even the Weber one's not perfect. So let's think about this. So the Weber method would say, OK, locate this right outside of Walpole, the little red dot. The problem is we don't live in Euclidean space. So we don't know what's there. There might be a swamp located there. Every location is neither feasible nor equally desirable. Also, there is an underlying network of highways and rails. If anyone's been up in this area, you know there are these certain roads that you want to be on, because they have the better access. This method ignores that. So in practice, in large-scale models, we don't really do it this way. We don't look at the continuous location. We do that to get insights, but when push comes to shove and you're actually selecting a location, you use candidates. You have candidate locations. You'd say something like, OK, I'm going to consider locating it in Woonsocket, Webster, or Hopkinton. Which one is the best selection? Rather than saying, OK, if I could locate anywhere, where should I go? That's always an insightful, kind of interesting thing to do. But in practice, most of these models use location candidates. And that's what we'll do next.

## Network Facility Location
Now we're going to look at the network facility location problem, where instead of looking on a continuous space and finding one location out of any possible location, we're going to have candidates to select from. So the objective is very similar still. We want to find the location or locations from a list of candidates, rather than a continuous space, that minimizes the total costs of delivering from this point to the n or k different destination points over a given network. So this is almost identical to the problem statement we had before. The difference is we have a list of candidates now. So how are we going to solve this? We're going to use the mixed integer linear program. And so what I'm showing you here is the formulation. Calm down. It's not that complicated. Let's break it down. We know it's a math program, because we see the objective function, and we see that we're minimizing something. We see we're subject to a series of constraints. So OK, I know where I am. So now let's look at a little more, because it shouldn't be that unfamiliar to you. Because in fact, this is the transportation problem with some extra constraints. We've still got the objective function that's minimizing the cost of the flows, the cij's times the xij's, which is what we did last time. We still have the supply constraints that's making sure that everything from the source nodes doesn't exceed what I have available there for all the I's within the supply set. I'm doing the same thing on the demand side, right? Where I'm looking for all the flow going into each of the j locations that are in the demand set, that they have to be at least as much as what was demanded. So this is the exact same formulation as we had for the transportation problem, along with our non-negativity constraints for the flows. I can't flow negative volume. The only thing we're doing is adding some constraints. So let's talk about those, and we'll start from the bottom. I'm introducing a new decision variable, this y. y_i is a binary variable. That means it can only take two values, either 0 or 1. It's not between 0 and 1. It's either 0 or 1. We use this to indicate whether to open or not open a facility. So y_i is equal to 1 if distribution center i is opened. Otherwise, it's equal to 0. And this is for all the i's that are in the supply set. OK, so that's the first one. Now, we might want to have a set of constraints that limit the number of facilities I open. And so I'm introducing two new constraints here. One is setting a minimum value p_min, which is an input value I give, and then an upper bound, p_max. So p is the number of facilities I can open, min is the lower bound, max is the upper bound. How do I enforce that? Well, I'm simply going to sum all of the y_i's. So if I sum those up, since it's 1 if it's open, 0 if it's closed, if I sum all the y_i's up, that's the number of facilities I'm opening. And so these two constraints just set the min and the max, make sure I fall within those two numbers. Pretty straightforward. All right. Now, let me go to the top, because we've added something to the objective function. And what is this? Well, I've got this y_i, right? That's the decision whether I open a facility or not. It's a binary variable. And I'm multiplying it by this f_i. And that's simply the fixed cost for opening, DC_i. So this problem that we did, that we're looking at, this could be for flow over the course of a week, a month, a year. And so this fixed cost is the cost for opening this facility for that period of time. So it could be labor. It could be lease. It could be any kind of thing that doesn't change with the amount of volume going through. So the f_i is independent of how much volume is going through. If I have one unit going through, I pay the same amount. If I have 1,000 units going through, I pay the same amount. So it's a fixed cost with respect to the volume flowing through it. So I've got two elements to my objective function now. I have these variable transportation costs that I'm circling, and then I've got these fixed facility location costs. So variable costs are based on the flow. The facility costs are based on the locations that I open. All right. We're almost there. We have one other constraint that I need to talk about, and that's this one. Because up until this point, I have two decision variables, or two types of decision variables-- the flow and the locations. And they're totally independent. If I didn't include this logical, or linking, constraint, what would happen? Well, the x's would do whatever they need to do, just like in the transportation problem. They'd solve the demand, make sure I met that and didn't exceed supply, but the y's would stay at 0. In other words, if I didn't have something connecting them together, then this would just be the transportation problem all over again. It would say, OK, all facilities are open. They're all free. So we need something to tie together the x's and the y's. So here's the same formulation. I just made it a little smaller. And I boxed the constraint we're going to talk about, this linking constraint. And so what does this mean? Well, what this is really doing is saying, we can't deliver from a distribution center unless that distribution center is open. Because if we don't do this, then the objective function, right here, is going to force it closed. It's going to say, hey, it cost me money to open it? If I don't have to, I won't. What if it's not included? Well, we talked about this. It becomes a transportation problem. If this constraint is not here, right, if we got rid of it, you essentially have the transportation problem, and there's nothing different. But it is here, and so let's talk about why it works. OK. So let's think about it, because all that it's saying is that any flows I have from i to j-- and so let's draw. I have node i, and it's going to node j. If there's any flow on here, then we want to make sure that i is turned on, that y_i is turned on. So what if xij is 0? What value will y take if xij is 0? Well, if it's 0, then I'd have 0 minus this M, and we'll talk about it, but just assume right now it's a really big number. So 0 minus a big number times y less than or equal to 0. So y could actually be any number at all, and then it would satisfy this constraint, which means that y would be forced down to 0. So if there's no flow, then it's going to go to 0. However, what happens if I have one unit of flow going through, just one unit? So now, it would be 1 minus big number M times y has to be less than or equal to 0. What value does y has to take? It has to become 1. It can't be 0 any more. It has to be turned on. So what this constraint is doing, it's forcing, by keeping it negative, it's saying if xij is positive, then yi has to be 1. Or if not, then it won't be less than 0. Play with this and see how it works. It's a nice, it's a very clever constraint. What's the best value for these M's? Well, as a general rule, you want it to be big. But technically, you don't want to make it too big, because then it slows down some of the solution time, and it takes a little more effort. So a good rule of thumb, you set the Mij greater than any value that the xij, the flow, can possibly take. In fact, it's OK, it's perfectly acceptable, to set all the Mij's to the same number. You set it equal to the sum of all the demand, right? Because the flow on each individual arc can never be greater than the total demand required. So that's one way to do it, to set a really big M. And that's why we make it just a big M. I'll talk later about how you can make that a little more finer, because it makes the solution a little faster. But it's perfectly acceptable to set the M, just to make it a really big number. Because what you really want to do is connect the x's and the y's. So what we're going to do next is put this into a spreadsheet, and we're going to solve it.

## Solving the Network Facility Problem
OK. We've formulated the network facility location problem. Now let's solve it. So I'm going to have to extend the problem a little bit to make it realistic. We'll stay with New England Root Beer Distributors, NERD. We'll call this problem NERD 2. And we'll see that they've expanded their market from just three cities-- Boston, Springfield, and Providence-- to a series of cities, 12 cities across New England. And they have five candidate DC locations-- Boston; Nashua, New Hampshire; Worcester, Massachusetts-- it looks like it's pronounced "wor-chester." It's "wuss-ter"-- Springfield; and Providence. OK. So I've got these 12 locations. And I've got five candidate DCs. And they want to know where should you locate the single DC. So I've got in this table, I've got the demand or the weight for each of the locations, and I've got the x- and y-coordinates. You can see that I set it up for New Haven, which is down here, is at 0, 0. So that's my bottom leftmost city. Now for fun, and I'll let you do this on your side, if you do the center of gravity, or the Weber method, you can find the location assuming continuous location of all these. And I'll let you do that on your own. But for candidates, what you really need is different information than x,y coordinates. What you really need is in what's known as the distance matrix. And that's what I have here. And so it shows for each city. And here are the 12 cities. Right? Boston to Worcester. And each of the candidate DCs is a column. Right? Boston, Nashua, Providence, Springfield, and Worcester. And I've got the distance. For example, from Hartford to Providence is 73 miles. From Portsmouth to Worcester is 85 miles, and so on. And you'll see it it's not quite symmetric because I didn't list it for all cities. It's not a city to city matrix because we will never distribute root beer from, for example, Brattleboro to Manchester. We just won't do that. Everything comes from a DC and goes to one of the cities. I also have the weight here. So that's all there. OK. What else do we know? We're going to say that to open a facility, it costs $10,000 a week. This could be labor. This could be rental. Whatever. The fixed cost is for that facility and it's independent of how much root beer I push through it. It's a fixed cost. It has nothing to do with the amount of product that I push through. My cost for going from i to j is simply going to be $1 a mile times the distance. I'm just keep it really simple here. So we assume every mile cost $1. Then my total supply is simply just that sum of the demands that are coming out and go into d_j. That's a total supply going through. And I'm going to set-- because I only want one location. My P_min is equal to my P_max. Remember, P_min is the minimum number of DCs that I can open. And P_max is the maximum number. If they're the same, then I'm forcing the solution. So I'm forcing the model to say, find the single location that maximizes or minimizes my total cost. And my cost is both my flows, my transportation cost, and my fixed cost for the facilities. All right. So let me show you what the spreadsheet looks like. And just calm down. It looks complicated because it's big. And this is that extended formulation that I like. And I'll explain why in a second. But let's talk through it. So let me talk you off the ledge because it hasn't changed that much. In cell B3 up here, I've got my objective function. And that's my z. Hasn't changed. In these cells, I've got my binary variables, my y_i's, and their fixed cost, the f_i's. And then all across here I've got my xijs. That's the flow decision variables and the cost for flowing on each of those. And you can see up here in cell B3, it's just the same sum product that I've had before, the decision variables multiplied by their costs. OK. Then I've got a bunch of constraints. In the first set are the exact same ones as the transportation, its maximum supply at each DC. Then I've got a bunch of demand constraints. And again, these are exactly the same. Now I've had to add these ones for minimum maximum number of DCs. And you can see that all I'm doing is summing up the yijs and making sure that they are less than my P_min or greater than my P_min and less than my P_max. And then all these big ones down here, these the linking constraints. And so all it's saying is that the xijs, if there's any flow, then you've got to turn your yi on. You've got to turn your DC on if you're going to flow anything out of it. I've got my left-hand constraints. These are just sum products for each of these. It's simply the sum product of the row that it's adjacent to multiplied by the decision variable row. That's the same function that's through all of these constraints in this column. It's the exact same function. So we really haven't changed anything. And then over here I've got my right hand sides. So why do I like this formulation? I love it because it shows the structure of the problem. If I look at this, I can see all these linking constraints. Here's the one for all of Boston. Right? That's those negative m values. And you can see what's known. This is known as an identity matrix. So I know that this is linking all the Boston constraints. So anything coming out of Boston, if there's any flow on any of these xij variables, right, because these are the ones that's saying there's flow out of Boston, then it's going to turn on my y_i. These ones are turning it on for the next one, which is Nashua. And so the nice-- one of the reasons why I like doing it like this, it shows me the structure of the problem. Now, the downside is, as your problem gets larger, you will never be able to do this because it gets too big. But it's very helpful. I love setting it up this way because you see the structure of the problem. And you understand that this is just matrix algebra. All that I have for functions here, I've got some products here in this column. And I've got a sum product up here to sum things up for the cost. Those are the only two functions I have in this entire spreadsheet. As I make this more compact, it gets a little more opaque and less transparent. OK. Enough about that. Now we're going to solve it. So how do I solve it? I bring up my solver. And I'll put in my objective function, which is just that cell B3, which is simply the sum product of the decision variables and their relevant costs. I'm going to minimize it. My decision variables, or changing variables, are highlighted there. Then I've got a series of constraints. I've got my capacity constraints. Then I've got my supply constraints. These are the demand constraints, rather. Then I've got the plant minimums and maximums. And they're both equal to 1 for this because I only want to find one facility location. Then all my linking constraints. And you see that the right-hand side is all 0 because it's a negative m times y plus the x is less than 0. And then I've got something that's saying that these y variables are binary. And I want to make sure that I check this box to make all the xijs non-negative. And I'm going to use a simplex method. And I'm going to solve it. Press the big solve button. And I get this. And here are the answers. So all I'm doing is showing the top left side of the spreadsheet just to blow it up a little bit. Remember this is that cell B3 that tells my objective function. So my solution is $89,478 per week. And what DC am I opening? I'm opening up Worcester because that's a 1. The other ones are 0. In this slice of the spreadsheet I'm showing the flows from Worcester. And so you're seeing that I flow from Worcester to Boston 425 units, 12 units from Worcester to Brattleboro, 12 units, 43 Worcester to Concord, and so forth. So what the model has done, it's shown me which facility to open and how much is flowing. So this is my solution for this model. Now the question is I just opened one DC. Worcester is the optimal location amongst the five candidates that gives me the lowest total cost, fixed cost, and flow cost that I forced it to be one. Is one the right number? Should open more facilities? So that's what we're going to look at next.

## Tradeoffs with Multiple Locations
So if we want to decide whether to open multiple facilities, we need to think about the trade-offs that are involved. So in any kind of supply chain design, what you're trying to do is find a balance between competing interests, and it's mainly costs and service. And so if I look at costs, they're not all the same. There's a whole bunch of different types of costs that I incur. Inventory costs, there could be cycle stock, safety stock, pipeline stock, all these things change depending on the number of locations I have. Facility costs obviously increase as I increase the number of facilities. It could be the amount I'm paying for property, the energy to open it, the insurance, the labor, the fixed cost involved with that. Transportation costs for moving product both into the DC and out to the customers, and the inbound and the outbound cost don't always move in the same direction. The operating or labor cost, obviously, as I increase the number of facilities, my labor cost probably increased because I have more places to staff. And the asset cost, the cost of the facilities themselves. If I have a private fleet, those assets. But then I also have different service characteristics. And so if you think of service, I think about customer satisfaction. Right? I want to make sure the customer is happy and satisfied. When they order something, they get it. I want to look at sales growth. I want to make sure that it's growing. I want to make sure the profit is growing. Increased market share, all these kind of things. The challenge is in supply chain design, this is a strategic model. And so I'm looking things one, two, three years out. Very hard to measure those. So we can also think of something like response time. Am I able to respond quicker? And that whole idea of a level of service. And that's what we're really going to focus on here. And we'll talk more in depth. But in general, what we're trying to do with the multiple locations is find the balance that improves profitability, which means keeping an eye on our costs, then that increases our customer satisfaction or our service. So let's focus in on the cost first because they don't always move in the same direction. So I've a number of costs here, and as I increase the number of DCs, as that increases, obviously the cost will increase. The warehousing or facility costs because I've got more facilities. It's almost a step function, but it actually is an increasing step function because as I open more distribution centers, I'm locating them closer to customers, which means the property value be more expensive because you're moving into denser areas. So it's an actually increasing step function. Then you also have inventory costs. Now we know that inventory cost will increase as I have more distribution centers, and it doesn't increase in a linear fashion. It's actually a square root. And so that's based on mainly the impact of the safety stock. As we add more distribution centers, we assume we're adding them closer to the customers. Right? So the outbound, the yellow, this outbound delivery cost will decrease because I'm closer. So as I have more and more, I'll be closer and closer. You see a lot of online retailers opening up more DCs closer to urban areas so they can reduce this cost and actually increase their-- improve their response time as well. But it decreases the outbound delivery cost. Interestingly, as I have more of these distribution centers, my inbound, the cost for transportation from the plants into these DC's increases. Why? One, there's more of them, but the other is I have less volume going to each of them. So it's a lower concentration. So what maybe I could have done for one or two DC's, to ship by rail or by full truckload, which is the lowest per unit cost modes, I now might have to use LTL or multi-stop truckload. So as I increase the number of DC's my inbound costs will actually increase. So you'll see that I have both increasing and decreasing costs here. So we can see where there will be an optimal location. And this is an optimal number of DCs. And so that's what we're going to do in terms of cost. But now, we've got that whole other side of service. So when I talk about level of service, it means different things to different people. It's know, it's-- I don't know any company where it's just one thing. It's usually whole array of different things. And the problem is, which levels of service can we include in the strategic model? Now previously, we've looked at tactical levels of service such as Cycle Service Level, which if you remember back from previous classes, is looking at the probability that you stock out during a replenishment time, or the probability you don't stock out, rather, in a replenishment cycle, the Item Fill Rate, the percent of the items you ordered that actually come in, and then the cost penalties for each of those. So these are well-established tactical level service indicators, but they don't fit for a strategic design because they're influenced by stocking level not the location of facilities. You'll notice in the models that we've done so far, that we'll continue doing, inventory doesn't play a role. I'm just making my decisions based on mainly facility costs and transportation costs. So we can't use these levels, these metrics explicitly, but in strategic design, what we'll try to do is use distance to customer as a proxy. And so this is the best way we can get at in measuring the opportunity that you'll be able to meet these tactical service objectives. So the closer I am to the customers, the higher the probability, the easier it is for someone to be able to meet these CSL or IFR metrics. So we're going to use the distance to customers as a proxy here. Now this seems easy, but there are many different ways to measure this. So one is, I say allowable distance. So I say no customer is allowed to be more than x, 75 miles from the DC. So I make sure that there's a maximum level. Or I could say that at least 30% of all customers need to be within 20 miles. So you have some kind of absolute allowable distances. You might also have an average distance so that the average distance for customer to DCs has to be less than 22.6 miles. Whatever. Or the weighted average, so that you favor customers or regions that have higher volumes, the weighted average has to be less than some distance. So these are different ways to do it, and these are just two ways to do it. There are many different metrics. These are very commonly used. And so how would I model these? Well, one way is to not include it in the model but report it after each run. So if I do a run, then I say, OK, what is the average distance? What is the percent of customers that are within a certain distance? So I report it. The next level would be add a constraint to enforce it to happen. And so you'd say the average distance shall not be more than 20 miles. And I'll show you how to add that in as a constraint. And then the highest level, as you go from really passive to very active, I can change the objective function. There's nothing that says I can't make one of these distance equations the objective function. Minimize the average weighted distance from DCs to customers. If I make that my objective function, then it will minimize. It'll open as many facilities as possible close to customers, and then you'll be able to find out what the cost is, buy you're no longer minimizing the cost. So what we're going to do is start with this, and then we'll go and look at the constraints. So let's get started.

## Selecting Optimal DCs
OK, let's get started looking at selecting the optimal DCs using these trade-offs. So I've got my NERD 2 problem, my 12 cities, and five candidate solutions. And I want to find the single DC location that minimizes facility and transportation costs. We already solved this, and we found that it was Worcester was the location and the total cost was $89,000 and change. And we can also look at some metrics. So for this solution I can, after the fact, look and see, OK what is the average customer distance? And that's simply the distance from each distribution center that it's serving. This average distance for each of the cities. Then I look at the average weighted, what I call, demand distance. And that's where you weight that distance by the amount of volume that's going through each of the cities. Then we look at percent demand within the distance brackets. So I want to say, what percent of the demand is within 25 miles, 50 miles, 50 to 75, 75 to 100, and over 100. So what we see is, here's my optimal location. If I can only pick one, it's going to be Worcester. And here are my distances. And 10% of all the demand is within 25 miles. The majority is between 25 and 50. So this raises the question, well maybe I should open two DCs. What if I open two? Where should I locate them? So we're going to do-- and you can do this in the spreadsheet that you have-- is we're going to set the P_min and the P_max-- which were equal to 1-- set them both equal to 2. So you change the right-hand side from 1 to 2 for both. Solve it. And now what are we doing? We're finding the optimal two DC locations. We're forcing it. You've got to open two. If you have to open two, which one of the five candidates do you open? And you'll see it'll open Springfield and Boston. Now some of you might be surprised that it didn't keep Worcester and open something else. This happens a lot when you have binary variables. A slight change can have a dramatically different solution. It's something to keep in the back of your mind. And we'll talk more about this when we talk about realistic practices. All right. So we can also look at the level of service. We can see what our customer distance-- and we notice it went down as I opened more DCs. Same thing with my average demand distance. And now instead of 10%, I've got 37% of my customers within 25 miles. That's pretty good. Let's keep going. Now we're going force P_min and P_max equal to 3. So if I open up three, I'm suddenly going to open up my Providence DC. And what it's going to do is, it's going to serve its own demand as well as New London, which it's taking from what Springfield used to service. And so I can see what happens to my distance and all my other metrics and my costs. We'll summarize these at the end. But let me just keep going through. And now I'm going to force four DCs to be open. And it opens up Nashua, which makes sense because you had all this long haul from Boston up to the northern part of the region. And now I set up a northernmost DC. And so it takes off that whole line haul distance. So it makes sense to open up that facility if I have to open up four. All right. So now, I want to do one more. I'm going to forced it to five, which really isn't much of a decision as I only have five candidates. But what it's doing-- go back-- it's taking the Worcester domain and saying you know what, open Worcester DC. Serve your own demand. You're not going to have to serve it from Boston anymore. So it gets rid of that. That's the real change from going from four to five. We see what the costs are, service level metrics. And now let's look at them all on one table. So some observations. What I've got here each column forcing the number of distribution centers from one to five. The first row is my total cost, which is the sum of the transportation costs and the facility costs. Then I've got a bunch of metrics for the average distance, the average customer distance from each city. Then I weight that by the volume in each city. Then I list the maximum customer distance. Which city is the furthest away from any distribution center that's serving it? So I see that it's New Haven. Initially it's 98 miles away when I'm servicing out of Worcester with just one plant-- or one DC, rather. And it reduces pretty dramatically down when I introduced three, four, and five. And then I also have the percent of the demand that's within 25 mile bands. Within 25 miles, 25 to 50, 50 to 75 and so on. So what do I see? Increasing the number of DCs reduces the distance to customers. You see all of these numbers decrease, right? As I get more distribution centers open, the average customer distance is cut in half, from 56 to 25, and cut to quarter for the average demand weighted distance. You can see the maximum, the worst located city, goes from 98 miles away to 63. That's a big improvement. And you can see the percent of the population that's within 25 miles increases from 10% to 77%. So it makes sense as I increase the number of DCs, my service level is going to increase. Costs don't always move in the same direction, though, right? The facility costs obviously move up lockstep. Every new facility I open adds $10,000. And the outbound transportation decreases. Now, why isn't inbound transportation increasing here? Well, it's because I didn't capture it in the model. All that I'm capturing is the transportation costs from the DC to the customer. We'll introduce models later that have that component. But what I want to show here is the fundamental trade-off between opening more distribution centers. It will improve all of your service metrics. Right? It will also improve your transportation-- your outbound transportation costs at the detriment of higher facility costs. It's a basic trade-off. And we can see this in a number of charts. So what I'm showing here is on the horizontal axis the number of distribution centers we open and we're forcing them open. I'm just seeing what the effect is. And we see what the average demand distance does. As it goes-- this y-axis over here for the red is reversed. So this is 60 miles, and this is 20 miles. So as I increase the number of distribution centers my distance to customers decreases. But my cost, it decreases. But then it starts increasing again as the facility costs start dominating. I can do the same thing with looking at a different metric. Same total cost here on the left axis. But on the right axis now, I'm going to do percent of demand within 25 miles. It goes from around 10% to over almost 80% here. So as I increase the number of DCs, your level of service will almost always increase because you're closer to customers. So what if we want to find just the optimal solution? So far we've forced one DC, two DCs, three DCs, four DCs, five DCs. Now I can use the exact same model. I'm just going to sit P_min to 1, P_max to 5 and our re-solve for lowest cost. I'm going to let the model decide how many locations to open. And as you can guess since we kind of saw where the min was, it's going to open up three. It's going to open up in Boston, Providence, and Springfield. We've actually seen these metrics. So what I've done in this little video segment, hopefully, is shown you a couple things. One, we went and forced a bunch of solutions. These are runs I want to see what happens if we forced two DCs, if we force three DCs. And we saw what the effect was both in terms of the costs, facility, and transportation as well as the impact on all of these service metrics, these proximity to customers. Because in the model you're not going to capture everything that's important in real life. There might be something that's very important about having something open in a certain region. And you can see, OK what is the effect of doing that? So by using this model, I can do a lot of what-if scenarios. And that's what we did. The other thing we get at the very end, we said OK, forget the what-if scenarios. Just find the optimal. And that's where we set the P_min the P_max at different levels. And we wanted the model to give us an idea of, OK, where is the optimal location? So what we're going to do next is say OK, instead of just reporting these after the fact, what if I include those in the model? I include those in constraints. And that's what we'll do in the next video segment.

## Enforcing Level of Service Constraints
OK, now we're going to solve the exact same problem, the NERD 2 problem, but instead of just reporting the distance metrics passively, we're going to enforce them as constraints. So I'm adding level of service constraints, and I'm going to add two of them. So what I've got here is the formulation. Nothing has changed except for these two new constraints that I'm about to explain. OK, so I'm going to add a new constraint for the max average distance and the minimum percent within 50 miles. So let me talk about the first one. What I've got here is I'm saying for every x_ij I want to multiply it by the distance, because that's the weighted distance. And I'm going to divide it by the total demand because I want to know the percent. And so this is telling me the average distance. So if I sum that up for all the x_ij's I'll get an average weighted distance. So to do this I need the distance matrix, and that's what I've got down here in the lower left. So the distance going from Nashua to Providence is 72 miles, right? This is the same distance matrix that we showed in previous slides. So that's the average weighted distance, and it's going to be less than equal to some value. That's an input value. That's a number that you put in. Notice that this isn't saying for all i's or for all j's. This sums across for all of the x_ij's. So this is only one constraint. It's not like a class of constraints, it's a single value. So it's saying across all of the flows going to customers, what's the maximum average distance? It has to be less than some value that I'm giving it. The next constraint we added is this percent of demand that's within 50 miles of a DC. It's got to be above a certain amount. So the right-hand side of this constraint is an input that you put in there. I need to make sure it's at least 30%, 40%, whatever. The left-hand side-- it's a little trickier. I'm going to multiply each of the flows. So this is the number of units through x_ij, and I'm multiplying that by this new input data, which is a constant, a_ij. And a_ij is something that I input. a_ij is equal to 1 if customer j served by DCi is within 50 miles. It's 0 otherwise. So what I have here in the lower right-hand corner is the a_ij matrix. And I just created this by looking at the distance matrix. So for example, if-- let's pick one-- let's say if I want to pick Nashua. If Nashua is served out of Boston, is it within 50 miles? Why yes, it is. So therefore I make that 1. If Nashua is served out of Nashua is it less than 50 miles? Yeah, of course. It's 0. It's the same city. If Nashua was served from Providence it's 72, so that's why that's a 0, and so on. I did this-- it's a one time. I just used an if statement and you create this matrix. So what it's saying is if there's a 1, then if I'm serving that destination from the selected distribution center, it's either in 50 miles or it's not. So what I'm doing is I'm multiplying again, and it only counts the ones that are within 50 miles, and again I divide it by the total demand. So it's taking the percentage, the percentage of the total demand that's within 50 miles. So these are how I set it up in the formulation. It's a little tricky. Think about it. This sum of the d_j is not a variable. I put this in-- these are inputs. So this is just simply the sum of all the demand. I just want to find the weighted average for these two distances. So what does it look like in our spreadsheet? Well, let me just show you some of the rows. What I did here, and you have the spreadsheet available for you-- I added a new a_ij values in row 8, and it's simply equal to 1 if the distance is less than 50 miles, 0 otherwise. I just did that once, so that's now input data. So it tells me if I have this DC serving this customer, it either is or is not within this 50 miles that I have deemed is important. Then I've got some things here in this part of the spreadsheet. Let me just blow it up a little bit. Remember, this is my objective function. And so I've got these two new constraints, and these are in rows 97 and 98. So there's a lot of other stuff in between here, between rows 4, 90-- all the other constraints. I just wanted to show you the new constraints that we're adding. So for the minimum average distance on row 97, each of these cells is simply the distance divided by the sum of the demand-- the total demand, which in this case, from Boston to Brattleboro-- BO to BR-- is 93/1746, or 0.05326. Now my spreadsheet's just truncating it to two decimals. The value is there. It's just not displaying them all. Then for the min, or the max percent within 50, same thing for cell H98 here for the max percent within 50 miles constraint. It's just that a value, which in this case, if I serve Boston from Boston, it's within 50 miles, so that's why it's a 1 divided by the total demand. It's 0.0005727. It's only displaying two decimal places. The actual value is in there. So you see we populate-- that's what's populating all of this part of the spreadsheet. For each x_ij, we give what the weighted average and the mean average distance would be, and also whether it's within 50 miles. And on the right-hand side, you can see this is what will happen. Let me just clean this up just a tad. I have on the right-hand side for my left-hand side of the equation, of the spreadsheet, I have the exact same function that I've used before. It's just a sum product. It's a sum product of its own row times the decision variables. That's it. It hasn't changed. That's why I love this format for showing problems. I'm using the exact same function, and it's going to be less than equal to, for the first one-- 60, because that's my max average distance. And I say 80% here, for I want to have at least 80% of the population, or of the demand, within 50 miles. So that's how I set it up on my spreadsheet, and I can solve it as open solver. And the only thing I've done is I've added these two new constraints. The first one is saying that my average distance has to be less than a certain value. The second one is saying that the percent within 50 miles has to be above a certain value. And I can just solve this pressing the solve button. Make sure I'm on Simplex, nothing else has changed. And it'll open four distribution centers, and the average distance will be 15 miles. 90% of the customers will be less than 50 miles, total cost $66,781. So what have I done? The level of service constraints drove the problem. Remember, optimally, if I didn't have to consider this at all, I only open three of the distribution centers for a lower cost. But what this showed me is that for a little more money I can get a better service level. So depending, now you can see how I can use this. I could go back and say, well, maybe 80% isn't needed. Maybe I could do 75%, 74%. And as the problem gets more complex, I can play with these numbers and I can say OK, what does the cost really increase? Does it increase dramatically? Because if I look back, my solution for having three distribution centers open isn't that much more expensive. In fact, if I look at it, it was only $66,285. So it was $66,285. So this really, really quick analysis shows, you know what, for less than $500 a week I can improve my service level dramatically. So maybe I don't want to do that optimal lowest cost solution. Maybe I want to enforce some of these constraints. This is the beauty of a network model. I can make these analysis and I can test the sensitivity, because one of the things you need to remember-- an optimization model will do anything to save $1. Anything. So you need to test the solution around the edges and see what works, and see what makes realistic sense.

## Key Take Aways
OK, that was a big lesson. We covered a lot of material here. So what are the key takeaways? Well, we actually looked at solving one problem-- facility location problems. Where should I open my facilities? And we looked at in in two ways. We solved them two different ways. The first, we made an assumption that it was a continuous selection. Any place was equally likely. And so we looked at two different methods here-- the center of gravity method-- which minimized the volume times the distance squared, which is similar to what we'd see in physics-- and then Weber model, which minimized the volume times the distance. And that's what this function is for. And if you're going to use this for network design, you really want to use the Weber model, because that's what you're really worried about. You're worried about minimizing the distance traveled. This is very intuitive-- the center of gravity method-- but it really doesn't quite work for what we're looking for for network design. But in reality, well, looking at continuous selections is fun. It's interesting to see where that center would be. You don't use it in practice, because every location is not the same. They're not all fungible. Something's near a highway. Something's not. It could be that your center location is in the middle of a lake. So you really want to look at candidates. So when you look at discrete candidate selection, you're going to use a mixed integer linear program. And the trade-offs are going to be between many different costs, and subject to different level of service and other constraints. And the costs are going to be-- what we've looked at-- is outbound transportation costs and fixed facility or DC costs. This was the formulation that we used. And there are many different formulations. We'll continue to add to this and modify it. But what we had was the objective function, which is minimizing my cost, my variable transportation cost, and my fixed facility costs. I had constraints that made sure I kept within what I had available for supply. I kept and made sure my demand was met. I made sure that if I had a flow coming from a distribution center, I actually opened the distribution center. I had constraints that set the minimum and maximum number of distribution centers I could open. I introduced a series of constraints that set a minimum level of service in terms of maximum average distance. The minimum percentage of the demand within 50 miles had to be at least a certain amount. And then I had my non-negativity constraints for my continuous variables, which are the flows, the x_ij's. And the y_i's are binary, either 0 or 1. So the tool-- we use this as a decision support tool. And it informs the decision making process. It doesn't make the decision. You always want to conduct sensitivity analysis whenever you run these models. Because as you do more of these models, you start noticing some things. For example, optimization models are decision support tools. They will only suggest solutions. They shouldn't dictate a solution to you. They're deterministic. They assume perfect data. And they will do anything to save a dollar. If cost is in your objective function, you're asking this model to do anything to save that one additional dollar. So you need to do sensitivity analysis to understand, well, what did it give up to find that last dollar? Maybe it's something that doesn't make sense in reality. So they're deterministic. And we'll talk about this later, in that the data you gave them-- we assume that demand doesn't change-- that there is no variability. If I say demand in Boston for root beer is 420 units, it is 420 units. So we'll loosen that and see, OK, how do I get some stochastic or some variability built in for robuster models? We assume that the data is perfect. If I tell you the transportation cost is 3.2, it's 3.2. So the model doesn't take into consideration if my data is not perfect. And like I said, it does anything-- anything-- to reduce the cost if that's in the objective function. Your model will never include everything and have complete and perfect information. You can try to make it as realistic as possible, but there's a trade-off. As you make your model more and more complex, trying to make it more and more complete, you're making an assumption that if I get more precise, it's going to be more accurate. And that's actually not the case. Because you're making more and more assumptions as I include more data, I'm assuming that more data is perfect. So there's a trade-off there of how much you want to include in the model. Because again, this is a decision support tool. And the key word there is support. It doesn't make the decision. So the real benefit of these models, in my opinion, is for sensitivity analysis, because you can quantify and analyze the impact of doing certain things. We added, removed, changed constraints, such as forcing DC's to open or close. We haven't started playing with it yet, but we will. What if the capacity of these distribution centers change? Because maybe I want to expand an existing facility, instead of opening a new one. How do I test that? You can also do things like changing the input values. What happens if the cost changes? The distances might not change, but what if the price of fuel doubles or is cut in half? What impact will that have on my design? I could also modify level of service requirements. What if I change these? How will that impact my solution? And I can change the objective function. Right now, I only have outbound costs and facility costs. There are other things I could throw in there as well. And so changing these things allows you to see a more robust, and get a better idea of the trade-offs that you're making. So we have this somewhat complicated model. It's pretty complicated the first time through. But actually, it's very, very simple. Because this is a small list of things we are not considering. We didn't consider capacity on the arcs or nodes. We assumed that every DC could handle anything you threw at it. There's no issues with capacity on the transportation arcs. We ignored manufacturing locations. We ignored inbound transportation costs. There are no handling costs at the facilities. We assumed that all the transportation costs were variable per unit, and not fixed at all. We ignored all inventory costs. We considered one product. We all know that companies have multiple products, categories of products, or families. We ignored all that, and went to a single product. We looked at one time period. We know that what I do in February influences what I can do in March. So wouldn't it be nice to have a model that takes that into account? And we didn't dive deep, again, into the optimization models, the trade-offs it made, and the solution techniques. We're not going to cover that in this course. But some of these other things-- we'll start playing with these. We'll start saying, OK, what does this do? What does increasing capacity at a facility-- what does that do to my solution? And so we'll start playing with these more in the next set of lessons. So hopefully, you got a lot out of this lesson. Please if you have any questions, use the discussion forum for comments, any questions that you might have. And hopefully, you're better at optimizing your location than my two dogs, Dexter and Wilson, who are always hoping to optimize their location to be next to the food bowl, and rarely get to do that.
