# week02 recitation advanced network python

(SC2x video lecture transcript)

## Video 1 - Solving Part 1
CONNOR MAKOWSKI: Hi there. My name is Connor Makowski, and in this recitation, we'll be covering the "Food on Wheels" problem. And in this particular problem, we are attempting to help a food delivery company deliver boxes more effectively, or, in this case, more speedily or faster. They essentially have two different kitchens, and they deliver from these two kitchens by bike to five different areas in a city. If you're not familiar with the problem, I'm going to go ahead-- I'm going to scroll down here on the right-hand side. I'd recommend taking some time to understand what's happening in the problem and to fully understand what you need to do for this particular problem. All right, so now that we understand what's happening in the problem, we're going to go ahead and start coding. So to get started coding, the first thing we want to do is go over here to our Google Colab notebook. And inside of that, if we are using Colab, we're going to want to install the SCX package. So I'm going to hit the Play button here. That will go ahead and install my SCX package. So once we've installed the SCX package, we're going to go ahead and import our modeling class from our optimization module inside of that package. So I'm going to go ahead and hit Play here, and that'll essentially allow us to use this anywhere we want inside of our code from now on. So now we can call that model to do things for us. Before we get to that, let's first talk about what our data structure is going to look like. So the first thing I want to do here is, inside of our problem, we have some different things. We have demand, we have some constraints on what our kitchens can produce, and finally, we have some delivery times. To keep things simple, the first thing I want to do is actually model our transportation times. So you can see this table 2 at the bottom. So in this particular case, we have a list of dictionaries. So our transportation table, we're actually going to translate into a list of dictionaries. And what we'll do is, from kitchen 1 to area 1, we'll actually say something like origin_name=K2, or kitchen 1, and destination_name=A1 or area 1. And that allows us to represent this table, actually, as a singular list of items. We'll do the same thing for area 2-- kitchen 1 to area 2, that's five minutes. And so on and so forth until we get to the end, where we get to the kitchen 2 to area 5. And if we look over here on the right-hand side, that's 15 minutes. So we can say, from K2 to A5, that's going to be 15 minutes. And so we've essentially codified our entire kitchen-to-area time table. And we've codified that as a single list of dictionaries, which is quite helpful and gives us some other benefits later on. The next thing we want to do is actually model what our kitchen constraints are. So our kitchen constraints are currently that kitchen 1 can prepare 250 boxes a day, and kitchen 2 can prepare 350 boxes per day. And so K1 has a limit of 250, and K2 down here has a limit of 350. Now, it's important to note that K1, whenever we use it here in kitchens, we're also going to match the exact same name up above in our transportation matrix. And we do that so we can have some other code benefits later on. So now that we've modeled our limits for our kitchens and how many boxes a day we can produce, let's go ahead and look at our demand. So we have our demand table up above. So area 1 has a demand of 101. Following that same idea of "list of dictionaries," we have that name of A1. So again, that's going to match A1 in our transportation table. So that exists there as well. And we'll say, what is our demand? Our demand there is 101. We'll go ahead and we'll do that for all items in our demand table. And we can go ahead and move on from there. So let me go ahead and run this code, and that will run all of those data structures and create those for us. And we can go ahead and move on. The next thing we want to do is create a decision variable for how much we want to flow in each one of these transportation items. So I'm going to scroll down-- actually, let me go ahead and pin this code cell so we can use it further down. And so for T in transport-- er, for each dictionary in the transportation matrix, I want to create a new variable in the dictionary called T amount. And that variable is going to be created by calling, again, that model-- remember, early on, we actually imported that model. So it's going to be model.variable that allows us to create a changeable variable using the SCX package. Now, what is that variable going to be called? We're going to say that variable is going to be named this particular f string. So I'm going to go ahead and close the cell down for now. So it's going to be this f string here, and that is going to be-- oops, this f string-- the origin name of our transportation matrix. So remember that origin name that we specify, for example, K1, and then some underscores followed by our destination name inside of that transportation matrix and then the amount that we're going to flow. So A1-- er, sorry, K1_to_A1_amount. The final thing we can do is a little shortcut we can apply here. When we create a variable, we can apply a low bound. And so this is a lower boundary or a lower limit. And so, for example, this is a nonnegativity constraint. We can say that the lower bound for this particular variable is going to be 0. So if I run this, what does our transportation matrix actually look like, or our transportation list of dictionaries? I'm going to go ahead and create a new cell, and we'll show what the first one of that looks like. So I'm gonna say print T-R-A-N-S-P-O-R-T, transport bracket 0. So we're going to print the first item in our transport table or our transport matrix. And you can see the origin name is K1, like we had had before. Destination is A1. The time is 17. But now we have a new item in that dictionary called amount, and that's a variable that we can now modify. So it's going to be K1, A1, amount. Since we did this for each item in transport, we created a loop here. All of our items in the transport matrix will now have this amount that can be modified by our optimization program. So I'm gonna go ahead and delete this code cell now, and we'll go ahead and we'll start actually thinking about what our model is going to be. In this case, what we're going to do is initialize a new model. So we're going to call that model. Remember earlier, we called model.variable. We can actually also just call model, and that will initialize a brand new model for us. And that model we're going to call, we're going to name it FOW, Food on Wheels. And the one thing we can specify with that is whether or not we want to maximize or minimize, and that's the sense of the model. So the sense for this model is to minimize it. Now, we're going to call this my_model. So we're going to create a new variable in Python called my_model. And that will have some accessible items for us that we can then modify to create our full model that we're going to have-- so my_model. So the next thing we want to do is add an objective function. So now we have my_model, what are we trying to actually solve for? We want to add an objective. So we're going to call that function-- or, technically, that's a method attached to my model. We'll say my_model.add_objective, and everything in here-- I'm going to say the function I want to make as my objective, or fn, is going to be the sum of everything in this particular list right here. So the sum of everything in that list is what I'm trying to make as my objective. What is that sum? That sum is actually going to be the amount that we flow on each one of those items in our transport matrix times the amount of time that it takes to flow each one of those items. So I'm going to say the amount we flow times the time it takes to flow each item for T in transport. So for every item in our transport matrix, we're going to go ahead and take the amount times the time. So our objective function, again, is the amount that we flow times the time it takes to flow it. And we're going to try to minimize that, remember. So that's the sense, is to minimize. So you can see down here, our core task is deciding which area to serve from which kitchen to minimize that total delivery time. So the next thing we want to do is make sure that we actually satisfy all the demand. Because if I just say, hey, solve this, it'll say, hey, look, don't ship anything anywhere. Well, we actually need to make sure that all of the demand is met. And so, to meet all the demand, we're going to add some special constraints for our demand. And we're going to say, for each D in demand-- so we're going to create another loop. And so for each D in demand, we're going to add a constraint to our models. We're going to say my_model.add_constraint. And from that, we're going to say-- we'll create a new constraint called whatever the name of that demand is. I'll just scroll up real quick. If the name is A1-- so we'll call this A1. This first one that we're looping over is going to be A1 demand. And so this constraint is A1 demand. Now, what does that actually equal? That's going to equal that function. So we're going to say fn-- so fn equals. And what does fn equal? Well, it's going to be the sum of something. Let's not talk about that too much. The sum of that is going to actually have to be greater than or equal to our overall demand for, in this case, A1-- so for D in demand. So this has to be greater than D of that demand. So if I scroll up here, you can see it has to be greater, for A1, than 101. And so we've just codified a way to say, hey, look, take all of this together. Add it up. And that has to be greater than my demand. So what are the items we actually have to add up? In this case, if we scroll up to our data, what are things that flow into A1? So technically, kitchen 2 flows into A1 here, and that's going to be 7. And we also have kitchen 1 also flows into A1. But none of the other transport flows go into A1. So how do we think about that, and how do we codify it? We're going to go ahead and dive into what this sum is. Here's this model's sum. We're going to create a special list of items that we're going to be summing over. And so we're going to say the amount-- so the transportation amount for T in transport-- so we're going to do all of the items in that transport list only if-- so that's this core statement right here, is if-- if the destination name equals my demand name. So only if my destination name equals A1 will I actually incorporate this in the list. So everything, only if it was those two that we saw before, we will add into this summation to be greater than or equal to that demand. So I want to make sure that you guys take a time, understand fully what's happening there. That's a super important point. And once you fully get that, we'll go on and we'll start moving on to the kitchen capacity constraint from there. But take a second, pause the video, rewind a little. Make sure you really understand what's going on there because, for future constraints, we'll go a little bit faster over some of them. All right, so now that we fully understand or have a pretty good idea how these constraints are working, let's go ahead and add another constraint. We have to remember that each kitchen can only produce a certain amount of boxes per day. So we'll say, for K in kitchens, or for each kitchen, we're going to add a new constraint. So my_model-- remember, we're calling that class or that object-- .add_constraint-- we're going to say that constraint is going to be named the name of the kitchen with another part of the variable following saying kitchen capacity. So for example, [? K1 kitchen capacity. ?] And so what is the function of this constraint? The function of this constraint is going to be the sum of whatever this is. We'll get to that in a minute. And it has to be less than or equal to the limit for the kitchen. So if we go back up to our kitchen, we can see that our limit is, for example, for K1, 250. So we're saying that everything that comes out of kitchen 1, altogether, has to be less than 250. So how do we get the items coming out of kitchen 1? We're going to use a similar trick to what we used with the demand when we do this. So we're going to take the sum of everything in this particular list. So we're going to say the amount of flows coming out of kitchen one for T in transport if-- and this is only if-- the origin name-- so where the flow starts or where the transport starts-- equals our K name or our kitchen name. So we're only going to include variables in here if those two match. And that just ensures that only things flowing out of kitchen 1 get added into this limit. So we can ensure that we never oversupply from kitchen 1. And the final thing we need to do here is to solve the model. So we'll say my_model.solve. And that just calls the solver, and it does everything for us and makes sure that we get an optimal solution. Or it will give us some feedback if we do something wrong. So I want to go ahead and hit Play here. We've solved that model. The next thing we can do is actually check the formulation to make sure we formulated it right. Even though we did get a solution, we're not sure if we did formulate right. So let's go ahead and look at that formulation. So these are arbitrarily created based off of the information you provide. So we're minimizing 17. Remember, that's that first kitchen 1 to area 1 times the amount we're flowing from kitchen one to area 1. We'll do that for all items in all of our transportation matrix pieces. And let me go ahead here and scroll back. We're going to save that. We're going to minimize that subject to the fact that we have to meet all of our A1 demand. And that's actually going to be our kitchen 1 to A1 amount plus our kitchen 2 to A2 amount, and that has to be greater than or equal to 101. Again, that comes back to the fact that we have 101 items in our demand. We can see that we do that constraint for each item in each of our areas. And finally, we make sure that our kitchen capacity doesn't get exceeded for each of our kitchens. And so it looks like we have formulated this properly, and we should be good to go. You can also see a list of all the variables that we've created that we're willing to change. So now that we've looked at this model, it all looks good. We've already solved it. Let's go ahead and see what our outputs look like. So I click this Play button here for my_model.show_outputs(). Remember, there's some parentheses here. That means I'm calling a function. It'll go ahead, and it'll show me what my outputs are. So we can see our objective. So this is the output of our objective function, is 3,663. So let's go ahead here in our edX, and let's go ahead and answer some of these questions now. So if we're going to start by formulating our model, which of the following optimization components should be included in this model? So we don't have any binary variables. We do have an objective function. We do have a demand constraint. We have to meet the demand. We don't have a linking constraint. We don't have a conservation of flow constraint. We do not have a-- oh, we do have a capacity constraint for our kitchens. We have a nonnegative constraint for our amounts that are flowed. So we should be able to submit that. And it looks like we got that right, so that's great. So now, the next thing we want to do is, what is the minimum total delivery time per day in minutes? So if we go ahead, we can see here, our total delivery time is 3,663. So I'm going to enter that in here, 3,663. And I guess I can round it two zeroes, so 3,663.00. And we'll go ahead and submit that. And it looks like we got it correct, so that is great. We have successfully completed the first part of this problem.

## Video 2 - Solving Part 2
CONNOR MAKOWSKI: Hi there. My name is Connor Makowski, and in this recitation, we'll be solving food on wheels part 2. And to get started, you can see here. I've actually got my Colab Notebook opened up to the end of part 1, and I'm going to go ahead and just create a copy of this. I'm going to say File, Save As Copy, and Drive. And once I create a new copy, I'm going to rename this Food on Wheels P2 and save that. So now that I've got that saved and good to go, I'm going to go ahead and start looking at what problem 2 is. And so we can see that we've actually gone ahead and implemented a new strategy to reduce cost using some different hubs and a centralized kitchen. If you are not yet familiar with this particular part of the problem, I'd recommend pausing now and reviewing exactly what is going on in this problem so you know where we're getting started. All right, so now that we're back, we're going to go ahead and start changing our old model into what our new model should look like. So you can see now that we've got three different distribution hubs, and each one of them is going to serve different areas. And then we also have some different capacities for those hubs as well as the amount of time it takes to ship from some central kitchen to each one of the three hubs. And so now you've got this multilayer network that we're going to be thinking about. So to get started, let's go ahead and start thinking about what we need to do. So we'll go over here to our Google Colab Notebook. The first thing, again, like normal is to install our SCX package. We are going to import our model from our SCX optimize module. And we're going to go ahead and start thinking about what our data is going to look like. So now, instead of shipping from each kitchen directly to each area, we're actually going to be shipping from a central kitchen. And we'll say-- we'll call our central kitchen k1 just for consistency. And so from k1 to hub 1, we're going to say that's going to take two minutes. So I'm going to modify this data, and I'm going to say from k1, or central kitchen, to hub 1, that's two minutes. I'll go ahead and say from k1 to hub 2, that's going to be five minutes. And from k1 to hub 3, h3, that's going to be seven minutes. So now I've actually codified what are all of my different central kitchens, each of my hubs. But now I need to go ahead and do from each of my hubs to each of my areas. So I'll say from hub 1 to area 1, I'm going to say that is going to be 13 minutes. And I can go ahead, and I can keep this in the same transportation matrix because of the way that we're always optimizing for time. And that's the way we're solving this problem. So in this case, we can have a single transportation matrix that has all of our different items, including from each hub to each area as well as from the central kitchen to the hub. So as I go forward, I'm going to go ahead and do that from each one of the hubs to each one of the areas. So to keep things moving here, I'm going to go ahead and paste in my transportation data that I have pre-setup or prewritten. We'll just keep things moving here. You'll also notice at the top here I actually added a couple of quick comments, so from our central kitchen to our hubs as well as from our hubs to our areas. So moving on, the next thing we need to actually get to is our kitchens. We used to have kitchens, two kitchens, but now we just have one. So I'm going to go ahead and get rid of kitchen 2. And our kitchens used to have a limit, but it turns out now that we don't have a listed limit for our central kitchen. So I'm going to go ahead and get rid of that. It's possible that that'll get added back, but for now, we'll probably treat that as a nonconstraint. And what we'll do is we'll actually focus on the fact that our distribution hubs have some daily capacity that will then try to match. So we'll have kitchens, and the next thing we'll actually have is going to be hubs. So we'll go ahead and call this hubs, H-U-B-S, and that's going to equal a list of dictionaries. And so that first item is going to be name, and we'll call that h1, h1. And our hub is going to have a limit, and that limit is going to be 150. So hub 1 capacity is 150. All right, so I'm going to go ahead and do that for each of the hubs, and again, to be a little bit more concise here, I'm just going to copy and paste from some prewritten code here. So I'm going to paste that here. And finally, we've got the idea of our demand, and I don't think our demand has changed. So we're going to go ahead and leave that as is. So now, we've got-- again, back to the top, we've got our transportation matrix. We've got our kitchens, which, again, don't have limits anymore. We have our hubs, which are brand new and in the center or at least in the middle of our network. And then, finally, we have our demand, which is at the end point of our network. So the next thing we're going to do is we're actually going to look at what we need to do. Essentially, we need to have the same decision variable. We have the amount that we're flowing for each item in our transportation matrix, and since we did our transportation matrix to also include from the central kitchen, or from k1, to each hub, that's also going to be included in this. So for t in transport, we're going to say what's the amount we want to flow. So the only variable we're going to need here is the fact that we need to flow an amount on each one of our arcs in the transportation matrix. So we shouldn't need to change anything there. What we will want to change is some stuff further down the line. So let's go to our model. In our model, we are going to go ahead and still be minimizing, so that doesn't change. Our objective function, the amount that we're flowing on each item in that transport matrix times the time, again, that's not changing because we're still minimizing our total delivery times. Will our demand constraints change? No, they shouldn't change as well. Our kitchen capacity constraint will definitely change. So we're actually going to shift that over to a hub constraint. So I'm going to go ahead and just get rid of this, and I'm going to call that hub constraint. So we'll say hub constraints because we'll actually add a couple. I'm going to go ahead, and I'm going to copy this demand constraint for now. And we'll just use that as a baseline to keep moving forward quickly. So we're going to say for d and demand-- actually, this is for h in hub. I think it's hubs. I'm going to add a constraint, and that constraint is actually going to be my hub name. And I'm going to say I need to actually meet my capacity. So for h in hubs, I'm going to have a constraint that I'm meeting my capacity. So I'm going to call this my capacity constraint. And that's actually going to be the function. So it's going to be a sum. Let's not think about what's in this yet. So the sum of all of that actually is going to have to be less than or equal to h limit. So what has to be less than the hub limit? That's actually going to be the amount of items we flow for each item in our transportation matrix, and that's going to be if our origin name-- oops, of our origin name equals our hub name. So for h in hubs, the amount that we flow for each item in transport, if the origin name-- so if it starts at the hub-- it has to be less than the limit. So let's go ahead and add a conservation of flow constraint. So this conservation of flow constraint is going to take in some of those similar things that we've done before. And let's go ahead, and we'll create a new constraint. So we'll say-- we'll copy this one that we've got here currently, so my model.add_constraint. So we're adding a constraint to our model, and this will call conservation of flow, so the hub conservation of flow. That's going to be the amount of things that are originating has to equal the amount of things that are leaving. So how do we actually think about this? I'm going to go ahead and break this down a little bit just to make it a little easier. So the amount of items that are coming in, so this model.sum everything coming in has to equal a model.sum of everything going out. So t amount for t in transport-- oops, if t origin name equals h name has to equal the sum of everything going in, if the destination name-- name equals hub name, so everything that's coming into the hub, so when it's a destination, versus when it's the origin, when something's leaving from it. Everything leaving together has to equal everything that's coming in together. And so if we do this, we've actually effectively created a conservation of flow, so we're ensuring that there's a unity between them, that they're going to be equal. So now that we've gone ahead, and we've created the capacity constraint and this conservation of flow constraint, ensuring, again, that these two are equal, we can go ahead, and we can solve this model. So I'm going to go ahead and hit Run here. Let me go ahead and run some of these other ones up above. I'm not sure if I've run them yet. So when I run this transport 1, I'm going to run for t in transport. We'll create those amounts. It looks like we actually have an issue here. It looks like transport is not defined. Did I not run that? Oop, I didn't. Now let me run this now. And then once we initialize our model, we'll go ahead, and we'll do all that code we just created. And finally, at the end, remember, we're solving that. So let me go ahead and solve this. I'm going to run that. And we can see it effectively ran. Let's go ahead and look at what our formulation is, so I'm going to run this. You can see here that we are currently minimizing 13 times h1a1 amount. So again, this is going to be our hub 1 to area 1, so 13 times that. You'll probably-- if you scroll far enough over, you'll also see from the kitchen 1 to hub 1 as well. We're going to say all of that's subject to those same demand constraints. All the demand was met. We're going to have these capacity constraints for each of the hubs, so we've gone ahead and created a capacity constraint for each hub as well as a conservation of flow. So you can see all of that looks correct. And so let's go on down to the bottom, and we can go ahead and show those outputs. So I'm going to go ahead and run this, and you can see that we've got some outputs going on here. And you can see that our objective has changed quite a bit. And now you can see our objective is actually 46, 92. So let's go over here to our problem. Let's address some of these questions. So for formulating the model, which components are we using? We're not using binary variables. We are using an objective function. We are enforcing demand is met. We are doing a conservation of flow constraint, and we have a capacity constraint. And remember, for each item in our transportation matrix, we have a non-negativity constraint, so we should be able to check that off and see if that's working. So it looks like we're doing pretty well there. And finally, we want to know what the minimum total delivery time is per day in minutes for this distribution network, and that, again, is going to be our objective function. And so that should be 46, 92. And it looks like we're correct. So that is absolutely great. As we continue through the problems, we'll continue to expand this. In the meantime, I thank you very much for your time.

## Video 3 - Solving Part 3
CONNOR MAKOWSKI: Hi there. My name is Connor Makowski. And in this recitation, we will be covering the food on wheels problem part 3 using Google Colab and Python. For this particular problem, I would want to make sure that you guys first understand what's happening in the problem. We can see here now that we are considering three new hubs for hire, hub four, five, and six. Each one of them has its own distance or time matrix here as well as its own capacity. Now the one thing we're also going to keep in mind here is this kind of final note. We can still use our existing hubs in the model. If you're not familiar with this problem, I would recommend taking a second, making sure you review this. Try to fully understand what's going on. And we can move on from there. So over here in Google Colab, we'll get started. So right now what we're looking at is our food on wheels part two. We're going to go ahead and modify that. We're going to call this one-- we'll actually create a copy so File, Save As Copy. And we'll go ahead and save this as Food On Wheels P3, FOWP3. We'll save that. Now that we're in this notebook, we'll go ahead and we'll first install our SCX package. And once our SCX package is installed, we'll go ahead and we'll import our model from our optimization module. We'll go ahead and run that. Now once we go ahead and we do that, what we want to do is we actually want to modify our transportation matrix again so we need to include hubs four, five, and six from the central kitchen. We need that in there. We also need for each item from each hub four, five, and six to each area. So I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to say origin name is going to be K1. We'll go ahead and copy this. For example, I'll just start by copying this one. And we'll copy the whole example matrix here in a minute from K1 to, for example, hub four. So we're going to go ahead and create this hub four. That's going to be five so that time here is going to be five. So you can see over here from hub four or from K1 to hub four. That's actually going to be five. Now we can go ahead and I'll copy all of that data over here in just a minute. But we're also going to extend from each hub to each area. So I'll go down here to the bottom of our areas. And I'll say here we'll go ahead and we'll copy this. And we'll paste it. And we'll say from hub four to area one, we'll say that is actually currently-- that's actually correct. And we'll go ahead and we'll do that for each item. For each item in this particular matrix, we'll say from hub four to all areas, from hub five to all areas, and from hub six to all areas. So go ahead and we'll still maintain this same list of dictionary structures, we'll go ahead and extend it to fully build out our transportation matrix. And I'm going to piece that. And you can see I did a few other helpful items here so we'll say hubs for hire to each area. And so I was going to break this down so we know inside of this data if you ever want to take a quick peek, you can say from each one of our owned hubs to each one of our hubs for hire to each area that all exists there. So now that we've updated our transportation matrix, we'll go ahead and think about the rest of our matrices. Our kitchens matrix, that's actually not going to change. We have introduced a new constraint for our kitchen. We can also say for our hubs, has that changed? Actually, that has changed. And so what's changed about that? We are going to actually add our new hubs. But before we do that, we'll go ahead and add a new value to this list of dictionaries. I'm going to call this value is going to be type. And that type here is actually going to be an owned hub. So we have an owned hub. And then we'll go ahead and we'll create-- we'll copy this. And we'll say for each one of these types, we'll go ahead and put that information in eventually when I copy a new full matrix over. But we'll add a type for each one. And then for example, for our nonowned hubs, hub four, I'm going to actually say that one is actually going to be for rent. R-E-N-T. All right. So now that we have all of our hubs in, you can see for each hub, we have our limit including our new limits for hub four, five, and six. So hub four has a limit of 200, five has 200, and six is also 200. Those are all type rent hubs. And finally, our demand. Our demand actually has not changed so we should be pretty good to go on that. So you can see we've updated our transportation matrix, we've updated our hubs, and we should be good to go. So I just went ahead and I ran that data cell. And so now we have our transport matrix. The same thing we're going to do that we did before, for each T in transport, we're going to go ahead and create an amount variable that we're going to follow on that arc. And that should be the standard process we normally have had. The next thing we need to do is take into account the fact that we can only decide one hub to minimize the total delivery time per day. So how do we do that? We're going to go ahead and use a binary variable. So I'm going to go ahead below this transport cell, I'm going to add some new cells, a new cell. I'm going to say for h in hubs, I'm going to say we want to create a new variable called u sub h. Bracket u. So I'm going to create a new variable in those hubs items or that list of dictionaries. And that's going to equal my model. There we go. Model.variable. And that is going to have the name of probably something like it's going to be an F string. And that's going to be H bracket name. And we'll go ahead and we'll call this what use. And the next thing we can do is we'll go ahead and add a special thing here. You can see that colab is helping us out here. We can see that some options we have is low bound, up bound, category. And so in this case, we're going to go ahead and say our category-- we need to specify this category isn't a continuous variable. This is actually going to be a binary. So I'm going to say cat equals B-I-N-A-R-Y binary. And so I'm going to run this. I'm going to run our transportation one. And I'm going to run this data to create a new variable in our hubs for using that hub. So moving into our model, we can see here that we're going to do the same thing we did before. We're going to be minimizing our model. So our sense is still to minimize. We've created this object called my model. And what we're going to do is we're going to add an objective function. We're still going to be minimizing our total time. So our objective function will not actually be changing. Will our demand constraints be changing? No, they shouldn't as well. Will we have any new hub constraints? Actually, we will have a new hub constraint. So we are going to add a special linking constraint to our hubs. And so I'm going to say, what's our linking constraint? This is what we're going to do to enforce that binary variable. So I'm going to go ahead. I'm going to copy this constraint from our capacity constraint. This is a linking constraint. And that's going to paste that variable we copied from above. So let's go ahead and we'll change the name here. So this linking constraint isn't going to be capacity. We'll go ahead and call this linking constraint. L-I-N-K-I-N-G. or maybe just linking to keep it simple. And what's that linking constraint going to be? It's going to be the amount of everything flowing out. So when we're the origin, so the amount so t amount for t in transport if origin name equals h name. So right now we're saying everything flowing out if we're the origin has to be less than the limit of our thing. And this comes back to our capacity constraint. Well, this isn't a capacity constraint. This is a linking constraint. So we just need to say that it's going to be less than or equal to h, that use variable we just created, h use. And we're going to say times some m. Times m. So let's go up above and we'll actually define an m. I'm going to add a new cell here. I'm going to say M--- some big M equals 99999999, just some number that's big enough. In this case, we know the biggest data in our set is going to be a couple thousand maybe if all of our capacity is used together. So this should be sufficiently large as a large M. So I'm going to get ahead and run that real quick. So this hub has to be turned on in order for us so that use variable has to be one in order for us to take advantage of and flow products through this particular hub. Now if we wanted to get particularly clever, we could actually probably include this in with our limit. So I could say h limit times h use because that's technically not a variable. That's actually going to be a static value. So I could say times h use. We're going to keep them separate for now just to keep things pretty clear. But in theory, you could make this a little bit more concise by just directly applying that use to the limit if it is turned on. So in this case, we've now created a linking constraint. And then the only other thing we have to do is we have to enforce only that one possible hub could be turned on from those rental hubs. So we're going to actually go out of our hubs loop. So we were previously for agent hubs, we were adding each one of these constraints for each hub in the hubs. What we're going to go ahead here and do is add a special constraint. And let's go ahead and say my model, add constraint. And that's going to equal name equals some f string and function fn equals some function. So let's go ahead and fill out that name string. That name string is actually going to be probably only use one rental hub. I don't know if that really needs to be an f string. We'll just keep it there for consistency. So the function we're going to have is going to be the sum. So it's going to be a model sum. And that's going to be the sum of each item. So every time we use something for agent hubs, only if that type is a rental hub-- so remember we added that special type variable. So we're going to say the total sum of all of those binary variables has to equal 1. So we're choosing one. We have to choose one. But we're only going to do that for the binary variables that are for renting. So h use for h in hubs if h type equals-- what did we call it? Rent. Is that what we called that above-- if h type equals rent. Yes. So if h type equals rent, we're going to include that in this particular list. So I'm going to go ahead and add some brackets here because I forgot those. So we're creating a list of all the items we're using for agent hubs if the type is rent. So we're only doing this if rent. So were going to say that constraint has to equal 1. So all three of those, we can only pick one of them to choose. So we're enforcing use and only one. We're choosing one and only one. So if I go ahead and I run this, double check and make sure this all makes sense. I think we should be good to go. I'm going to go ahead and try running this. And we'll see what happens. OK. It looks like if each type-- this needs to be a comparator. So if h type equals equals rent, let's go ahead and run this again. And it looks like we've successfully run the code. Let's just double check that our formulation worked right. So I'm going to say I'm going to run this formulation showing. And inside of that, let's go ahead and look. So we have our start. We have our minimization function. We're subjecting that to each of our demand constraints. We have our capacity, our conservation of flow. This linking constraint looks like it's working pretty well. So let's go ahead and scroll down finally to our final use one rental hub, so h four use plus h five use plus h six use equals 1. So we have to turn on only one of them. We can't turn on more than one because they're binary variables. So it looks like our formulation is correct. We should be able to move on from there. And finally, we want to go ahead and show our outputs. Again, these are our outputs from the last time we ran it. So let's go ahead and click Play here. So we can see our current new outputs. If we go ahead and we look at that, it does seem to be working. So let's go ahead and we'll check it in add x. So to start, which of the following components should be included? We are using binary variables now, those use variables. We have an objective function. We are using a demand constraint. We are now also using a linking constraint and a conservation of flow constraint. We are validating capacity. And we are checking for nonnegativity in our continuous variables. So I think that should be good. Let's go ahead and submit. Looks like we're good to go there. And finally, let's go ahead and we'll dive a little deeper. So if we are showing our outputs here, you can see which hub we're using. So that's going to be hub four use. That's a zero. Hub five use, that's a one. So that means we chose hub five And you can see we have some flows on our hub five. So hub five use is one. So we've chosen to use hub five. Let's double check and see if that's correct. And how many boxes will be delivered from hub five? That's actually going to be the sum of everything coming out of hub five. If we want to do this programmatically, I think that's an important step we should make so I'm going to add some code here. We can go ahead and do that programmatically. So let's go ahead and we'll print the model.sum. So let's say model.sum of some list of items. And let's just say this is t bracket amount amt.value. So we're going to use what's called a .value here. This just has to do with the underlying modeling structure. In general, if we need to call the actual value that's received from a variable-- so if this is a variable in our model, we can go ahead and get the actual returned value from that by calling .value. So t amount.value for t and transport if that origin name, so t origin name equals equals our h name. Oh, sorry, not h name. Sorry our h5. So that is our h name. So h5. So the amount that we flow for t in transport if that origin name equals because we've turned on h5. We can go ahead and get that programmatically. We should see that's 101. Now in this particular case, it's pretty easy for you to eyeball. If, for example, you had thousands of these and you had to add them all manually and look into this, that's really not a good way to do it, which is why we would use this programmatic way. So we can say we're going to go ahead and say 101. How many boxes will be delivered from the rental hub? 101. Double check to make sure that's correct. Looks like we are also good there. And finally, what would the minimum total delivery time be per day? We're going to go back up and we can say this is our objective function. And that's going to be 4,050. 4,050. And then submit that. And it looks like we are good to go. With all of that said, I think this has been quite a good exploration into how to access some of the data after the fact as well as how to add some nice new constraint processes. I do thank you very much for your time.

## Video 4 - Solving Part 4
CONNOR MAKOWSKI: Hi there. My name is Connor Makowski, and in this recitation, we'll be covering food on wheels part 4. And for this particular problem, we're going to be just adding one new constraint, and that new constraint is to ensure that at least 75% of our demand is served in less than seven minutes from the hubs to all the different city areas. And so we'll go ahead, and we'll take our problem part 3. And we're going to go ahead and create a copy of that. I'm going to save a copy in Drive. I'm going to go ahead and call that Food on Wheels P4. And I'll save that. Once I get this saved, I'm going to go ahead and run these initial scripts. These are going to be the exact same as part 3. And so you can see we have our transportation matrix, our kitchens, our hubs, and our demand. That should all be functional. We shouldn't have to change anything in our transportation matrix. We're still using those binary variables for our hubs. And finally, we'll add that m variable. What we will want to do is we're going to add some extra items here in our constraints. Our objective function isn't going to change. We're still minimizing. We are still going to be doing everything the same for demand. I don't think we'll change anything for demand. For each of our hubs, we shouldn't have to add this per hub. This should be a generalized variable. So we'll go ahead, and we'll add a hub constraint or a special constraint at the bottom that is specifically for this constraint. So I'm going to go ahead and copy maybe a different constraint, and then we'll make some changes from there. So let's go ahead and copy this demand constraint. We can make some modifications. So my_model.add_constraint, so in this case, this is our demand. But we'll go ahead, and we'll just name this 75% PCT demand under seven hours, so 75% of demand is under 7 hours-- sorry, under seven minutes, not hours, seven minutes. So if we can go ahead and do that, what do we want to codify this as? We need to say the amount that we're flowing for each item in our transport should be included in this only if our destination name equals one of our demand names, so this actually is correct. So this is actually going to be a d name. But this isn't going to be just any d name. This is going to be any of our demand names. We'll go ahead and tab this back one more. So I'm going to create a special variable for our demand name. So D-E-M-A-N-D-- demand names, and that's going to actually equal a list of items. So that's going to be d name for d and demand, D-M-A-N-D. I think that should be correct. So we'll go ahead, and we'll actually run this in a separate cell so you can see what this is going to look like. So I'm going to say demand names print. So we go ahead and print that. We should see what those look like. So essentially, we're going up to our demand for each item in there. We're just pulling out what the name is, so a1, so in this case, a1, a2 a3, a4, a5. So we'll go ahead, and we'll keep that down there for now. And so our demand names, that's going to be here. And we're going to add a constraint that the amount that we're flowing for each item in transport is only going to be included in this list if the destination name is actually going to be in demand names. So I'm only going to include this if that is true. Now, the other thing we want to keep in mind is that the time has to be less than seven. So it's not just seven minutes or less. It's clearly less than seven minutes so I'm going to add an extra item here and say, if the destination name is in demand names and t bracket time and the time is also less than 7. So not only does it have to be a destination name in our demand name-- so our destination is one of the five areas-- we also have to make sure that the time it takes to deliver to each one of those areas is less than 7. And so if we take the sum of all those, all of those together have to be greater than or equal to 75% of my total demand. So what is that total demand? That's actually going to be-- let me think. That's going to be the sum of each item, so model.sum of that same thing we did before, except for, instead of d name, we're going to do it for D-- oh, what do we call this demand. We call that demand, D demand. So the sum of all of that demand together times 0.75. So what is this actually saying? This side of the equation's saying all of our demand times 75, so 75% of our total demand, and this side is saying, we're only going to include the amounts of flows if our destination name is in those demand names-- it's one of those areas that we're delivering to-- and the time to that delivery is less than 7 minutes. So if the sum of all of those together is going to be less than the total amount of my demand, then I should be good. So what does that mean? 75% of the demand up here is served in less than seven minutes. That's great. That means we've achieved that outcome. Now, what might be a trick here-- it's not in this case, but it would say from hubs to all city areas. If, for example, we had a more complicated network, where you could deliver from hubs and maybe some other node type, you might also need to say, for t and transport, if t origin name in hubs and hub names, or something like that, so you would have to add another caveat here similar to-- oops, similar to this for the hub names to make sure it flows out of a hub and into a demand zone and maybe not out of something else. So you might have to get clever there. For this particular problem, there's no flows like that, so this isn't necessarily a trick for us. But just keep that in mind for some of those more complicated use cases you might run into in the future. So we'll go ahead, and we will run this. And once that's run, we're going to go ahead, and I can go ahead and delete this particular cell. Let's look at our formulation, and we'll make sure that 75% under seven minutes is correct. So what would we expect to see in there, perfect. h1 a5 amount. So we would expect from hub 1 to a5. If we scroll up to that value, we should go ahead and see that that's under seven minutes. So let's go ahead, and we'll go up to hub 1 to a5 all the way up to the top. Hub 1 to a5, so that's five minutes. So we can see from a hub to a demand area, there's one that's less than seven minutes. So anything that flows on that route altogether should be less than-- let's see if we can-- there we go. Should be less than seven minutes, and that's perfect. So if you look at each one of these above, you should see that all of these should be less than seven minutes, and they should all end at one of the demand areas. The total amount of those is actually going to be greater than or equal to 300, and that just means that our total demand is probably 400 total units of demand. And so 75% of that is 300. So everything flowing out of that has to be greater than 300, and that would then force this constraint to be correctly satisfied. So if we go down here, let's go ahead, and we'll show our outputs. And so you can see our total objective function is 4,085. And finally, we can do the same thing we did before, where we're going to show for each of the hubs what the total outflows are. All right, so let's go over here to our question on the right-hand side. Which of the following components should be included in your adjusted model? So we are currently using binary variables for the uses. The objective function we're using, we have a demand constraint . We have a linking constraint. We also have a conservation of flow, a capacity constraint, non-negativity for all those continuous variables. And finally, we now have that level of service constraint that we just added for 75% less than seven minutes. So it looks like we're good there. Let's see which hub we are going to be using, hub 5. So we're still using hub 5 for our hub there. And finally, how many boxes are we going to deliver from this rented hub? We will be delivering 101 boxes from this rented hub, 101. And that looks right as well. And finally, what's the maximum total delivery time? That's going to be 4,085, so 4085. We'll submit that. And it looks like we're good to go. With all of that said, I'm very grateful for your time. Thank you very much.
