# week02 recitation advanced network spreadsheets

(SC2x video lecture transcript)

## Video 1 - Solving Part 1
LAURA ALLEGUE LARA: Welcome to the recitation of optimization using spreadsheets for advanced network design. My name is Laura Allegue, and we're going to solve together the Food-on-Wheels problem. If you haven't yet, I invite you to pause this video, read through the problem statement, and join me back in a minute so we can start solving it together. OK, you're ready to go. Let's jump into it. In first place, we know that we are delivering boxes. These boxes are prepared in 2 kitchens and are delivered to 5 city areas. So one very important thing to keep in mind every time you start analyzing information is the units we're using. In here, you can see that we receive some information about what's inside those boxes. But if you analyze all the information, if you read through the tables, you can see that the demand is in boxes, that each bike delivers a box. So with that, your unit is the box. This is crucial for your analysis and for your modeling process, because if at any point, any information that we receive is in a different unit, you need to be aware that you may need to make conversions to the proper unit to work with. Of course, another very important data point is the demand in boxes. We have a table with that. So that's going to go to our model, of course. And the next one is the capacity to prepare boxes that each one of these kitchens will have. Start thinking about all the elements that our model is going to have, because that's going to help you solve question 1 in a minute, and of course, to start working on your model in the coming steps. The next element we see here is that the boxes are bulky, so each bike can only take 1 box at a time. This is also very important if we need to make any conversions. Like think of any other kind of vehicle, and probably they can carry 10 of them. So the units would change. The number of travels that this vehicle has to make will change. So even though here, we have simplified it a lot, you need to think that there's a possibility that a problem statement requires something different. The next piece of information that we have is in table 2, and it's a delivery time from kitchen to city areas in minutes. OK, here, we start seeing something that probably is not that common for you. Usually, the most common element that we try to minimize is cost. As you can see in the problem statement, minimizing delivery time is of utmost importance to keep the customers happy. In this case, they are not aiming to reduce in cost. They are aiming for a certain service level. So for them, the delivery time is a critical factor, and they need to minimize it. Our first task, as it's detailed in the problem statement, is to formulate the model. It's time for us to start working on understanding the different elements that we have in the model. So let's go a little bit back into our thinking process on everything we have read through. We need an objective function because we have a goal, which is minimizing the time. So we need to include that delivery time and the number of units flowing into a model, into a formula, so that we can minimize it. That's our objective function. We have a demand constraint because we have a list, actually a table, that has all the demand in boxes per day per area. So that's also in there. We also have capacity constraints, because if you go back, every kitchen has a capacity of a certain number of boxes per day. So that's another constraint that we include. Of course, we always use the non-negativity constraint because of the kind of product we're using here in the model. And if you analyze all the others, you will probably notice that that's all we need here. If you still have any questions, after you submit your answer, click the Show Answer button and revisit the model formulation in a similar approach to the one that you have learned throughout the lectures. As a best practice, I would say always use the Show Answer button. Even if you have a correct answer, you want to know what's in there in the explanation that could help you take your knowledge to the next level. The next question is going to take us to the spreadsheet. So once again, pause this video. Give it a try by yourself. You do have all the elements you need to do it by yourself using the knowledge from the lecture, and of course, previous recitations if you watch any of those. And I would love to see you back in a few minutes. So that we go through it together, we double check your work, and we fix it or help you start your model if you're still struggling a little bit with it. Let's start populating our spreadsheet with all the information we have from the problem statement so that we can start building our model. The first element we have is the demand in boxes. I'm going to copy-paste this here. This is going to be demand in boxes. It's per day, of course. In this case, as we talked, everything is in boxes per day, so no conversion needed. So I won't clarify. But just in case, keep that in mind. This is just the format and the titles I'm using, but feel free to use it and create your spreadsheet in the best way for you to be clear, to understand it, to know where to go back if you need to debug your model, and to know how to adjust your model if that's needed at some point. I'll copy all my tables first. So this is the delivery time from kitchen to city area. This is kitchen 1 and kitchen 2. And the next element I want to bring here is the capacity per kitchen. So capacity, boxes, also per day, is 250 for kitchen 1 and 350 for kitchen 2. OK. I think with that, I am ready to go. Yep. Everything we need is on our spreadsheet now, So let's start working in order to create the model to identify what's the minimum total delivery time per day in minutes for this network to satisfy our demand. Let's work on it. Let's start thinking about all the elements we need to create our model. One of those is the transportation time. This is going to be necessary. And it's going to be where we place our objective function in our next steps. So that's going to be the first addition I'm going to make to my model. We need to have our variables set to calculate that. So let's think our transportation time is going to be calculated in terms of the number of units flowing. We are talking about boxes. so it's the number of units flowing from each one of the kitchens to each one of the areas, right. So we're going to do a sum product of two arrays. One is the array of the minutes between those kitchens and areas, and the other one is the array of units flowing between the same two. We're still missing here the variables, so we need to add that table so that we can start working on the objective function. To make it easy for me to build the model, I really like to copy the same table and just make it empty, and color-code it. I'm going to go there in a minute. So I will just do this, copy-paste. This is going to be empty. And as I mentioned, I really like to color code everything, because that helps me when building the model not to miss any element. And also, if anything goes wrong, that helps me debug it. So I'm going to type here what every color represents for me. So yellow for me are the variables, OK. I also really like to have the objective function with the colors. So I'm going to do this here. At some point, I also think it's very important to have two more elements with color coding. One of them is the provided data. This is everything that's coming from the problem statement. I color-code that because I think it's very important to identify what's possibly changing from one problem statement to the other. So I really like to double check all my color coded as provided data every time I switch to a next part of the problem. So I'll do that. And I will go with gray for this. Please consider to make it as you think it's best for you. This is not one rule for everything. This is just what works for me. As I mentioned, there was another element, which is the calculated fields. So calculated fields are everything we need so that we complete our constraints. Remember that we have a left-hand side and a right-hand side of every constraint. One of those elements, which is the constraint, is going to probably come from the problem statement, so you know that you cannot produce any more of x number of units. But how many units are we actually sending to each one of the areas? That information is the calculated field. So in order to be able to create your constraints, once we go to the solver, you need to add those. So I'm going to do that. So one of the calculated fields is going to be the units sent by each kitchen, so flow from kitchens. And the other calculated field I'm going to add is how many units each one of the areas is receiving, because I need to compare that with the demand, so to make sure that every area receives the units they need, OK. So this is going to be flow to areas. And I'm going to just sum everything we have said, from the 2 Kitchens to each one of the areas. OK, I'm going to color code this. So I need to still type here that this is a calculated field. And I haven't yet worked on my objective function. We talked about it, but we need to include it into our model. So this is, as we talk, a sum product of 2 arrays. One of them is the number of minutes from each kitchen to each area. The other one is how many units of boxes per day are flowing between those. And with that, we are all set to start working on our solver parameters. I'll go to Data and Solver. And my objective function, I color-coded it in green. This is the cell I'm going to pick. That makes it very easy for me. The next thing I'm asked is whether I want to maximize, minimize or find a specific value for my objective function. You know we want to minimize the time, so just go through the problem statement. The next element is identifying the variables. I have them in yellow, so that's an easy find for me. And next, we need to work on the constraints. We're going to first consider the demand as one of the constraints. We need to satisfy the demand from each one of the areas, and we usually say we need to send at least the number of units they demand. Let's think about what's happening with our model when we select larger or equal instead of equal to the demand. The most immediate reaction would probably be that the flow to each one of the areas should be equal to the number of units they demanded. However, if we have the chance to use an inequality instead to obtain the exact same results, it's usually recommended. Using equalities makes it much more strict for the computational process to identify on a smaller, feasible region a solution for us. If we have the opportunity to relax those constraints, we allow the model to be much more efficient and fast into solving our model. At this point, you may think, of course I'm just using less than 20 data points, a few variables. Why should I care about speeding up the process or making it easier for this to run for me? But at the end of the day, you need to think that if you're working with a software that manages massive amounts of data, you really want to make it as efficient as possible. So it's a good practice to use this inequality constraint. Would this affect my model? So it's very important that you understand the problem you're solving and the effect any changes you make into equalities or inequalities for your constraints would have. Let's think of this company and this network. We're minimizing time. If we tell the model to send as many units as demanded, exactly the same units, we're going to find a solution because this model is feasible. We can produce the number of units that we are demanded. So there's a feasible solution and we're going to get that. If we use larger or equal to the demand, what's going to happen? So the fact that we're minimizing time, and the fact that one more unit that flows will necessarily increase the time, means that there is no way the model will send more units than the ones that it needs to send. So if I tell the model, send at least this number of units, that's the exact number of units the model is going to send to each area. This is going to be different if we're talking about maximizing profit. If you tell a model that you need to maximize profit, and each unit represents an increased profit because for every unit flowing, the revenue is higher than the cost, so you do have a profit for any unit flowing, and you use larger or equal to the demand, the model will send as many units as it has possible. If it has a capacity constraint, it will use full capacity to send all units to all demanding areas. And that's because you're telling the model, I want more profit, and the model identifies that more units represent more profit. OK, let's go back to the spreadsheet. So the flow to areas is going to be larger or equal to the demand from those areas, based on what we talked. And I also need to add the one that says that the flow from the kitchens cannot be higher than the capacity, so it's lower or equal to the capacity constraint from each one of the Kitchens. So we have those ranges there. And the next thing we have is the non-negativity constraint. We talked about that already. So this says that any one of the variables should be larger or equal to zero. I'm going to click OK. And then remember, we're solving a simple linear programming kind of model. I will just click Solve. And I invite you to populate your answer in question 2. Let me know how it goes. If we got it right, I'll see you in the next part of this recitation. If you still have any questions, remember to reach out to us using the forums, or just go back to the beginning of the video. Let's work on it together so that you get a successful result here before moving to part 2. And I hope to see you there.

## Video 2 - Solving Part 2
LAURA ALLEGUE LARA: Welcome back. This is Food on Wheels Problem part 2. Hopefully you had a successful part 1. As we usually do, please pause this video, go through the problem statement, identify all relevant elements, and then return to us in a few minutes so that we can continue working through it together. Good luck with that. In this part 2 of the Food on Wheel problem, the company tries to implement a different strategy. So we no longer have the two kitchens, but we're talking now about one central kitchen. So remember what we talked about, the provided data. In this case, we don't have any more-- all the capacity constraints for the two kitchens since those two kitchens do not exist anymore as part of my model. From the central kitchen, we're going to send the boxes to three distribution house by motorbike, which makes no difference here because they only deliver one box at a time, just like the bikes-- and then from the three distribution house to the city areas. As you know, our objective function will still aim to minimize time, but minimizing time will include now an inbound time and an outbound time, considering the house. To do so, we used to multiply minutes and flows in boxes per day. Now we're going to do the exact same thing, but we need the minutes from the central kitchen to each one of the hubs and from each one of the hubs to each one of the areas. So that's the information we're provided, the minutes between those. And we also have a capacity in boxes. But now this is for the hubs. So it's time to go to question one. And as we have talked, you already know we will have an objective function. We already have the demand constraints set from the previous part of the problem. That has not changed. And we also have a capacity constraint, but this is not the same we had in the previous part of the problem. So it's slightly different. We are now talking about the hub capacity and not about the kitchen capacity-- but still the capacity constraint. We, of course, still use the non-negativity constraint. But the new element here, whenever you have a transshipment point that is not aiming to become a warehouse for your products is to have a conservation of flow constraint. This is going to force the model so that anything that goes inside the distribution house also flows outside of it, because we cannot and we don't intend to keep any units in there. So anything flowing in should be also flowing out. And that's what the conservation of flow constraint is going to do. I encourage you to submit your answer, double check the Show Answer button, and, of course, use the forum for further questions. And then let's go together to work on our spreadsheet so that we identify the minimum total delivery time in minutes per day for this new adjusted distribution network. My favorite recommendation and the way to go when moving from one part of an optimization problem to the other is to never overwrite your model or adjust your model in the same tab of the spreadsheet but duplicate it so that, if you want to go back, if you want to analyze and compare results, if you want to see if you made any mistakes, or if at any point some problem statements tell you, OK, now with this, regard that new policy or that new strategy or that new model and we want to go back to the original one, then you don't have to need it all over. This is also very helpful to debug your model, so let's do it together. I'm going to just duplicate my tab, creating a copy at the end. And I will just rename this as part 2, and we'll start from there. Some of the information we have received in the past has changed. We still have the Demand in boxes. But now we don't have two kitchens and one area but one kitchen and three hubs. So let's bring that information with us. I'm going to delete everything I don't need. And this is Hub1, 2, and 3. So that's the information I'm bringing. I used to have Capacity in boxes here for the kitchens, but now we can use this place for the capacity of each one of the distribution hubs. So this is 150. This is the 100, and this is another 150. Sorry. And I'm going to do some color coding. You know that we love it. And this was gray here. The next element I want to add is the delivery time from the distribution hubs to the city areas in minutes. So that's also new information. This is the outbound, as we talked. And we can just bring our titles here. And I think with that, we have all the information from the problem statement. I'll maximize my spreadsheet view so that you can follow along with me as we start adjusting our variables, arrays, and fixing our objective function before going to the solver parameters. So given information that we have, then we are good to go. As, of course, the demand and also the minutes inbound and outbound, so I will just call this inbound and that's outbound so that you can clearly identify what I'm talking about. And then we need to replicate, as we did in the past, the variables using both tables in this case. So I'm going to have the inbound probably here. For the variables, just going to make this yellow. You know that. And then I'm going to fix this one so that I include hubs instead of kitchens. I'm just copy pasting this. I'm just using this matrix so that I don't have to do it all over. But you can definitely just copy paste above it. I'll just delete the numbers. So double check all your calculated fields. And this is what we have talked about before. The Flow to areas before was only considering to kitchens, originally, in this same table. Now I'm talking about three hubs. So I need to be sure that I'm summing up all the flow from all hubs to all areas for this. In this one, as we already have five areas, we should be good to go. I'm just going to place everything together so that it's easier for you to follow along with me. So now we have the inbound and the outbound here, and we need to add some calculated fields. And we also need to add some changes into our objective function. The first thing I want to do, and I recommend doing, is calculating separately your inbound and your outbound transportation time; instead of just doing one objective function, holding both. This is easier for you to better understand how your model is behaving, to better understand your outcomes. Just imagine that in the future something changes and you want to explore what was impacted, whether the inbound or the outbound. It's going to be much easier if you already have that information clearly identified on your model. So what I'm going to do here is add a couple of rows and just make it Inbound time and Outbound time. So those are going to be calculated fields for me, not the objective function. And the objective function at the end of the day is going to be just the summation of both, inbound and outbound. So how do we calculate the inbound? Just as we talked before, this is just the sum product of the minutes to go from the central kitchens to each one of the hubs, time the units flowing from that same central kitchen to those same hubs. So this is going to be just the sum product of those two arrays. Great. The next is going to be the outbound time. We're going to do the same, just considering the two arrays that have the information from hubs to areas. What I encourage you to do right now is to give it a try, adding one data point into the variables, please, so to see if your formulas are working properly. And again, in this case, this is a very simple model, but you want to be able to test your model. So any time you're working with any size of information, just try to have a way so that you can identify whether everything works well even before running your solver. In this case, I'm going to add, for example, 10 units flowing from Hub2 to Area 2. And I just want to see if that's replicated into my outbound time properly. So I will click Enter, and you can see that Hub2 to Area 2 has 10 units. 10 units time 4 minutes means that I have an outbound time of 40 minutes. So that's showing that the model is doing the correct calculation when it comes to the objective function. You can do the same with changing anything into the inbound part. So I'm doing Hub3 and central kitchen, 10 units. You can see it's doing 10 times 7, giving me a 70 inbound time. You can also see that this is replicated here in the transportation time. So anytime I touch this, it's going to add both and just give me the final transportation time for the entire network. With that, I think I'm ready to go. We do have the calculated field for the hubs. So we have the total number of units flowing from each hub to compare with the capacity. We have the flow to areas in terms of comparing with the demand. And we also have how many units flow to each one of the hubs to compare how many units go out of those so that we use the conservation of flow constraint. So I'm going to go to Data once again and Solver. You can see here that the objective is still set, and D1 has not actually changed. Even though the formula within the transportation time has affected my objective function, it's still located in the same position. So for the solver parameter, it's still on D1. We're still minimizing, so that's not changing. But we now have two sets of variables, as you can see here in yellow. So I'm going to just delete the original one and be sure to add both variables, arrays. Next, I had the non-negativity constraint that was only considering a piece of my table. So I'm going to just delete that and have it all set again. So all my outbound flows should be larger or equal to 0, and now let's add that my inbound flow should always also be larger or equal to 0. Let's go back and see what else we had in here. We also had that the flow out of each one of the hubs, and we need to adjust this wording I have here, should be lower or equal to the capacity. So now we need to fix that to include all the flows from all the hubs lower or equal to all the capacities from all hubs. And then last but not least, we had the demand constraint. We still have the same position for those. So again, every total number of units flowing to each one of the areas should be the same or more of what they demand. You can see that that has not changed, so I will just click OK. And it seems we already have all our constraints from the previous part adjusted to the new model. But now we're missing the conservation of flow constraint. So this one is going to say that any number of units flowing in should be exact same, because in here we need to leave no units, to any units going out of the house. With that, we're going to just run the model, click Solve, and see how it goes. I encourage you to populate your answers within the questions coming in part 2. Let me know how it goes, and please analyze your results. If you want to more of the kind of insights we gather from the results, stay till the last video of this recitation for more details on that. And I encourage you to start doing it also in the discussion forum, together with our CTAs and our outstanding community of learners. Go for it, and see you in part 3.

## Video 3 - Solving Part 3
LAURA ALLEGUE LARA: Welcome to part 3 on this food on wheels problem. In this recitation of optimization, using spreadsheets for advanced network design. If you haven't yet, as we usually do, please pause the video, read through the problem statement, identify all key data points, and be back to us in a few minutes so that we can work through it together. Awesome. So in this case, we have three more hubs, into the model. As you read through, you will see that we have the possibility of renting only one of these three additional halves we're exploring. So this is to analyze the potential strategy. We can still use the existing hub in the model. So the idea here is to say, I do have three hubs, and I'm going to use them as are needed, only and as our model suggests us to use them. But I will rent one more hub. So I need to add all these three to the equation, to the model formulation. And I will analyze, out of the three of them, if I need to use one, which one would I use? Of course, we're receiving additional information in terms of the delivery timing minutes and the capacity so that this is aligned with the original model we have in part two, including the other three hubs. So let's go directly to question one. So we still have the exact same model we had in part two. So let's guess that we're still continuing to have objective function demand, capacity constraint, conservation of flow, and non-negativity constraint. But what we are going to add here is a different element. In order to identify which of the hubs are operating or not in our model, and to limit that to be one as expected, because we're not just told we're renting any of the hubs, no matter the capacity or the flow that's going through them. No, we're being told that we have the chance to rent only one. So to do so, we're going to add two more elements to our model. The first one is the binary variables. To force the model, make a variable 1 if the hub is rented and 0 if it's not. And we're also going to use a linking constraint. As you probably learned from the lectures, the linking constraint is going to allow us to link our objective function with all the variables and flows, including this binary variable we're incorporating into the model. So with this, I invite you to select everything we have talked about-- binary variable objective demand, linking constraint, conservation of flow, capacity constraint, and non-negativity constraint. Submit your answer. Go to question two. Double-check what we're being asked, and meet me back in the spreadsheets in a few minutes so that we work through it together. Remember that if you still have any questions about the question one answer, you're welcome to click the Show answer button, find further details there, or use the discussion forum to discuss about it together. Awesome. To start solving this, let's first start by duplicating, as we like to do, our top so that we have part 3 here and we don't overwrite everything. And let's bring all the information we have from have 4, or 5, and 6 to our spreadsheet. So the first three elements were included are in the minutes between the central kitchen to the house. So this is going to be 5, 6 and 4. And we can also bring the capacity from those, which is 200 for each one of them. I'll just replicate the format. And that I'm going to do the same for the minutes for the outbound network. So this is going to bring me the areas in the way I'm copy/pasting. I'll bring it here. Then I'm just bringing it to my table. I don't need this anymore, so I'm good to go. I'll do some formatting so that it's clear to me. Remember, this has to be easy to read for you. So I encourage to work this way. So we have all the new data points here. We have the new inbound number of minutes, the new capacity, the new outbound number of minutes. We're ready to go to maximize the view of our spreadsheet and continue to adjust our model. Since we adjusted the arrays we're using for our inbound and outbound number of minutes, we also need to adjust the array of variables we're using. So I'm going to add my three hubs here. And this is what I'm doing so that I complete the names. I also need to drag and drop and, I would say, recalculate my calculated fields. You can see here that it's already adding all the hubs, but just double-check because it depends on how you added those columns. If it's continuing to add up all the hubs or you will need to adjust that calculated field. I should be good to go in terms of the flows to compare with the demand. I'm good to go in terms of the flows to compare both with the hub capacity and with the inbound so that I use my conservation of flow. What I'm missing is my binary variables to determine how many rented hubs I want to have and also my linking constraint. So first, let's do the binary variables. I'm going to just write rented here. I'll just highlight this in color for me, and I will copy/paste the color coding to know that these are variables. And then the next one I need to work on is the linking constraint. Remember that in the linking constraint, I need a large enough number. I'm going to do M equal the sum of all demand. You probably remember that from the lecture. If not, I invite you to return to the lecture. Go again through the slides. You will find the formula of the linking constraint and a great explanation in the M as large enough number for the linking constraint to work. And another data point you can have here. In case you want to then play with different scenarios, I would just say, max, number of rented hubs that we allow. And we can just make this one. I'm going to highlight this as provided data. And this is the calculated field for color coding purposes. Let's build my linking constraint. As you know, the linking constraint is going to be the number of units flowing from that certain facility minus the binary variable that it's on-- N15 for me-- times the large enough number. I'm going to fix that so I can drag and drop my formula. I'll go for it. As you know, we need to make the linking constraint lower or equal to 0. And let's see how that works and what happens when it's not. If we don't have the linking constraint, and we have 10 units flowing from Central Kitchen to hub 4-- just think of us not still using the linking constraint-- then the model will have no need to turn the binary variable into 1, because there's nothing saying that the linking constraint cannot be 10, in this case. With that, the model will be able to use any of the rented hub because I'm not telling the model, only use 1. Because I cannot have these activated binary variables that tell me, hey, there are three hubs rented in this model. So what I'm going to do is use a linking constraint, make it lower or equal to 0, which will force this rendered to become 1. And as you can see, as soon as the rented hub becomes 1, because it has a flow, it's minus a number. It's below 0. So this is fulfilling the constraint. Linking constraint is lower or equal to 0. As you can see, this applies also when there is no flow. If there is no flow, I need this to be 0. So the model will just keep it as is. It's minimizing time. It's not necessary to send any more units. If there are no units flowing, this is not going to change. And I will remain having a 0 here in the rented binary variable. And the model will be operating as we need it so that, at the end of the day, I can sum all the rented hubs and tell the model, please make sure that this is always 1 because that's the maximum number of rendered hubs I'm allowing. I'll highlight this and color code it as calculated fields so that we have that handy. And I will just make this 0 to avoid any confusions. And I'm ready to go to fix my objective function and then do the solver parameters. You can see I have troubles with both my inbound and outbound calculations. Why is that? Because we added more hubs to the equation that were not there in the first place. So on the first array, I just fix it. On the second one, because of the way I added the columns, it already included those, so no need to change. Now, I'll do the same for the outbound. Including all new hubs information. I'm all set with both arrays, so that means I should be good to go. And I'll set the solver. Once again, objective function, same position. Still minimizing. We still have a different array of variables-- a larger one for inbound and outbound, but also a new binary variable array. So I'm going to delete this and add all the new ones. Remember to separate them using a comma. And I'm all set with that. I'm going to adjust the existing constraints just to make sure I'm considering all hubs. So I'm going to change the first one. The first one is the conservation of flow constraint. It looks good. It already considers everything going inside all the hubs and outside from all the hubs. So that's fine. No need to change it. The next one is the non-negativity constraint. For me, it's still considering all 6 because of the way I extended my table. So keep that in mind. If you didn't do it the same way I did, you need to change this array to include all hubs. For me, it has worked perfectly. The next one, let's find it. This one is the capacity constraint. So this is telling me that the flow from all the hubs or to all the hubs, which is the same, as you know, cannot be larger than the capacity. So I'm going to change this to include all six hubs. That's perfect. And the next one, and it was last but not least, that we have to adjust is the demand constraint. Demand constraint looks good because it says that the flow to all areas is larger or equal to the constraint. That is the demand from all those areas. That information is still in the same location, so no changes are needed. With that, we have reviewed all our constraints-- our existing ones. Remember, we added a couple more, so this is yet to be done. But we have just made sure that we are still working with the constraints we had in the previous part of the problem, but now including all the new hubs. And let's add the new constraints. So the first one is saying, all these three should be binary because we only allow 1's or 0's. The next one is going to be-- all this should be lower or equal to 0. We talk already about the linking constraint. If you still are not that sure, please pause the video, go back to the lecture, or revisit what we have just done and talk about. Or of course, use the discussion forum for the further support of our CTAs. Last but not least, we need to tell the model that we can only rent one hub. Of course, probably because we cannot afford more than one or we think it's not going to be the best choice for our company. So I'll just click OK, and I'm good to go. I'll click Solve, and I'm going to find my results. Use that to populate your answers to identify which of the hubs should be rented. As you can see here, I'm personally renting hub five. I'm going to use it to deliver 101 units from the central kitchen to the areas. I'm going to deliver those to area 3, as you can see here. And this is going to take 4,050 minutes from our company. Good luck with your answer. If you didn't receive the same outcome I got from my model, double-check all your inputs. Double-check your objective function, your calculated fields. Go back to your solver settings and analyze each one of the constraints. And if you still have any questions, please use the discussion forum for further support. See you in the next and last part of this problem. And hopefully, you stay with us to the end so we can talk about the insights from the information we're receiving.

## Video 4 - Solving Part 4
LAURA ALLEGUE LARA: Welcome to the last part of this Food on Wheels problem in this recitation of Optimization Using Spreadsheets in Advanced Network Design. This is a very short problem statement, so hopefully you read through it before joining us. If you haven't yet, please pause the video. If you already went through the problem statement, you now know that we want to ensure a level of service policy that says that 75% of the demand, at least, should be served in less than 7 minutes. This is only a point for the house to the city area, so keep that in mind. We're only adding this constraint for a portion of our network, so that's very interesting. And we're still aiming to minimize the total delivery time while complying with this new level of service policy. By now, you probably noticed we're still using the same model we created for part 3 of this problem, but we're adding the level of service constraint. So finally, we're using all possible elements we presented you here. Go ahead and click Submit. If you still have any questions, please click the Show Answer button or use the discussion forum for further support on the model formulation. I encourage you to, once again, see if you need to adjust or fix anything on your model, and meet me in a few minutes to work together in adjusting our model in the spreadsheet, so to solve this last part of the problem. Last time we're going to do in this recitation. I'm going to duplicate part 3 move it to the end, rename it part 4. So there are only a couple of elements we need to bring from our problem statement. One of that is that the level of service policy is 75% of the total demand. This is a minor detail, but I think it's hugely critical to the model. We could have told you that it's 75% of each one of the areas' demand. We could have mentioned that it's a certain number of units out of each area of demand, but we're talking about the total demand. We're not giving you a detail per area. We're not talking about each one of the demands. So even though it's a very simple data point, always go through the problem statement, allocating some good time to that. I know that when you are stressed out with a graded assignment or an exam, or anything that is timed, you sometimes just go quickly through the problem statement and jump into the spreadsheet. But making a mistake could cause you a lot of time if you didn't read through a simple detail like this one. This is actually 75% of all. Is it at least, or is it less than? Because that's different also. If it's at least, it is 75% or more. If it's less than, it's up to 74.999%. If it's equal to, that's also different. So that's a single word in the problem statement, and if you miss it, then you're probably taking some time afterwards into correcting if you notice. Or you just make a mistake, and it's just because you missed a minor detail, but still critical in the wording of the problem statement. In this case, as I said, level of service policies is at least 75% of the total demand. I'm going to write that here, not to forget, at least that. And with that, I'm ready to go to maximize the view of my spreadsheet and start working on adjusting our model together. The first thing I need to do is identify whether a hub and an area are connected within less than 7 minutes. To do so, I will create a new table. And I can just add it here. And this is going to be all made out of calculated fields for me. And what I'm going to use is an if formula that says if this is less than 7, which is what I'm asking, right, is less than 7 minutes, please make it a 1. So that means yes for me in binary. Or otherwise, make it a 0. OK, so let's first know where is it that my distance in minutes is measured in less than 7 minutes. As you can see here, just to confirm if this is working properly, I have a 1 in between hub 2 and area 2. That means that should be less than 7 minutes. If I go to the other table and check, that's 4, which is perfect. Just checking I have 1 to area 2. You can see this is a 7, but I'm being told that it's less than 7. So 7 is not coming into the equation, and that's not making it a 1. So that's a no. This is not complying with the level of service policy in terms of distance in minutes, right. Why did I create this table? Because I want to know, of all those units flowing in my variables, which ones of those are actually complying with the level of service policy? So I'm going to create another table here. And yes, I know it's a lot of changes for a very simple problem statement, additional information. But trust me, it's not that complicated. It's just about understanding what is this doing and why. In this case, what I'm going to say, OK, of all those units flowing, which ones are compliant with the level of service constraint? To do so, I will just simply multiply the flow between those areas times the fact that this is compliant or not. If a certain flow from a hub to an area takes longer than 7 minutes, this is going to give me a 0 back, because I'm multiplying a flow times 0, OK. If a flow between a hub and an area is within 7 minutes, it will just bring me the flow in units, and that would be in boxes per day. Why is that? Because that's the unit of my flow. I'm flowing boxes from hubs to areas. I'm just multiplying it by 1 if it's complying with the policy. So you can see this here. I will just copy-paste my formulas. And now you can see that, for example, hub 1, area 5, has 50 units flowing, and that's the only flow from hub 1, just going out from hub 1. That complies with the less than 7 minutes. If I go to check the minutes between hub 1 and all the areas, I can definitely confirm that that's the only one that's complying with the level of service policy. So that means that the outcomes of my calculations in these tables are correct. Let me name the tables. So I would say, hubs to areas below 7 minutes' distance, so that we keep that information handy. And then the next one will be demand complying with the level of service policy. Actually, it's the demand is satisfied complying with the policy. OK, hope that makes sense. So I have a couple of ways to go here. As I'm being told that I need to comply with the percentage, I'm going to calculate that. So the first thing is saying, OK, what's the demand fulfilled within that level of service policy? So actual demand within the level of service policy. And I'm going to just sum all the units, as I just said. So 252 units. I want to know how much that represents out of the total demand, right? So I would say just make this into percentages. This would be boxes, but let's do it as a percentage. This would be the actual demand fulfilled, divided by the sum of all demand. And that would be 63%. What is this telling me? This means that even though we already found an optimum result, meaning that I'm renting hub 5 and that this is going to give me a total number of minutes, that it's a minimum possible to achieve in such network, this is not complying with my new level of service policy, because only 63% of my demand is being fulfilled within less than 6 minutes considering the capacity available and the hubs I'm using. Now that I have all the information I need, I'm going to set up my Solver so that I force the model to comply with the 75%. So I'm going to use Data and Solver. The constraints have not changed. Remember that the variables are still the same. I have not changed anything on that. The objective function has also not changed, so I don't need to adjust anything. The only thing I need to add is that I want this 63% to be at least 75%, which means larger or equal to it. OK, so I will just click OK. I will click Solve and I will analyze my results. You can see here that I'm still running hub 5 and only one of them, but now, I'm fulfilling 75% of the demand within the level of service policy. In the next video, we're going to analyze the results. In the meantime, I invite you to populate your answer. And meet me in the next video to talk a little bit about the insights obtained after we analyze all this, and summarize all the recommendations we talk about when it comes to acing exams and graded assignments. Congrats on making it here, and see you in the next and final video of this recitation.

## Video 5 - Reading results
PROFESSOR: OK, welcome to this final video on the recitation of optimization using spreadsheets for advanced network design, where we are going to analyze a couple of results obtained in the last few parts of the wooden wheels problem. What I want you to do is to read through the numbers that you have obtained. Probably if you went through all the questions in part 4 and also in part 3 of this problem, you noticed that we are still renting Hub5 and that we're still sending 101 units from that and to that hub. But at the same time, you probably noticed that the transportation time-- the total minimum one-- is different. And that could also be related to the fact that we forced the model to satisfy a level-of-service policy. The first thing I want you to keep in your mind whenever you adjust or add a new constraint to a model is that if you're having the same exact model, just adding one additional constraint-- so as we did here in part 4, still [? six ?] have still the same constraint of only one of those being rented, still the same capacities and demands. The only thing that has changed here is that now we have one additional constraint on the exact same model. Then there's no way I'm having a better result. How do we translate that into numbers? So one option is that we could have had the same transportation time. Another option-- and it's what actually happened-- is that I'm getting a worst solution, which means a higher transportation time. Since I'm trying to minimize, a worst solution means a higher time in this case. But in the case of maximizing profit, for example, it would be receiving the exact same profit or a lower one, because that would mean a worst result in that case. So this is general knowledge I want you to keep in mind. I know you have seen that in the lectures already, but sometimes we miss out those important details. And I want you to analyze that every time you adjust a model. Are you getting a better result? Is that because you actually changed your model, or is it because you made a mistake and you need to debug your model? Keep that in mind when solving your practice problems and graded assignments and, of course, exam questions. The next element I want you to consider is understanding what changed. Because if I'm still renting Hub5 and I still have 101 units, why do I have a higher time? And that's because we changed the flow within the total network. That specific flow from that specific rented hub did not change. But if you check possibly the flows from Hub 1, 2, and 3, there may have been a change. And we also need to see if it changed only on the outbound because that's where we added the constraint. But also, did it change on the inbound? Because remember that any units flowing out of a hub should have been an inflow at the very first time. So if anything changed in the outbound flow, did it also adjust the inbound flow? So you can see here that the outbound time is 1,900, and in the past, it was above the 2,000. And the inbound time in the past was below the 2,000 and now is above it. That's because whenever we change anything on one of the flows, as we connected them-- because of the conservation of flow constraint-- we're also affecting the inbound one. So keep that in mind. It's very important that you understand what happened and why with any changes you implemented in your model. I also encourage you to analyze whether there's a different way of doing things. In this case, for implementing the level-of-service policy, we did calculate the rate because we made total demand complying with the level-of-service policies divided by the total demand, and we calculated those percentages. But we could have also said, OK, 75% of my total demand, that's 300. And then I could have probably just said, OK, I want the actual demand fulfilled within the level-of-service policy to be 300 or higher. With that, I would always have talked in units, which means in boxes for this problem. And I would have not used rates. Would that have given me the right result? Of course, because I'm saying the exact same thing, just is that I'm saying in a different way. That brings us back to units. If we're talking in percentage, we just need to be sure we're talking about percentages in both sides of my inequality or equality for the constraint. If we're talking in boxes, let's always talk in boxes. If we're talking minutes, in days, we need to keep that unit consistency. So that's also a huge advice for you for graded assignments and exams. Always keep that in mind. Always name your units. Because that's going to make a difference for you whenever a problem statement asks you to consider different units and probably make some conversions so that these are consistent across your model. With that, we're ready to go. Congratulations on making it through the recitation. I hope that you have enjoyed it. If you have any questions, comments, or thoughts you want to share, please use the discussion forum. And, of course, your feedback is appreciated, so I look forward to receiving it. Good luck with it, and I hope to see you at the finish line of this program.
