# week01 recitation optimization spreadsheets

(SC2x video lecture transcript)

## Video 1 - Solving Part 1
LAURA ALLEGUE LARA: Hi, everyone, and welcome. I'm Laura Allegue, and I'm going to drive you through the blink problem in this recitation of optimization using spreadsheets. If you are still not very familiar with using spreadsheets, I encourage you to use the toolbox in week 0 to get familiar with it first. You'll notice I'm going to use Excel in a Windows settings. However, this recitation is helpful for you if you're using spreadsheets in almost any kind of software. If you find any difference between what I'm showing you and what you have in your own computer, please use the discussion forum to share it with your CTAs and get additional support. Just in case you're pursuing a MicroMasters program and are looking forward to taking the CFX anytime soon, I encourage you to try learning how to use Excel or LibreOffice if you haven't yet, because those are the only two software that are allowed during the CFX in order to solve these kind of problems. Last but not least, if you haven't yet, please pause this video and read through the blink problem part one, because we're going to assume you already know the basics. I'm not going to drive you through the entire statement, but only on the data points that we need to solve the problem. Great. So now that we're all set and ready to go, let's analyze first what's the information we're being provided. The first thing we are told here in this model is that we only have two nodes here. One are the assembly plants and the other ones are the regions. This is very important because we're not going to use, at this point, any kind of distribution center or transshipment point. We're given a transportation cost per unit per mile. We're also provided a demanding unit, so each region is going to demand a certain amount of units we need to supply. And we're also provided with distance in miles per assembly plant to each one of the regions. This is very important, because as we have been told, the transportation cost is in the units of dollar per unit per mile. If we want to build our transportation cost equation, what we are going to analyze is all three elements. We have a value in dollars. We also have a number of units flowing from each assembly plant to each region, and these units are going to flow through a certain distance, which will depend in terms of which assembly plant is delivering those units to each one of the regions. Keeping all those elements in mind, let's now go and solve question one. You will notice that question one in most of the parts of this problem is going to ask you about formulating the model. This is because we want you to think, as we just did, on all the elements we have, and what is it that each element represent in our model formulation. Thinking on what we've been provided, we only have first an objective function, because we need to know what is our goal and what is it that we're minimizing and optimizing here, which is transportation cost. So I'm going to select that option. We're also provided with the demand from each region, so this is also a constraint we're going to have to incorporate to our model. And we know that the non-negativity constraint is important to have mostly because we're using all positive numbers here in terms of the value of the variables. So I'm keeping the non-negativity constrained and analyzing all other elements. We haven't been provided with, for example, a supply constraint because we haven't been provided with a capacity from each assembly plant. We've just been told that any units come flow from the plant to the regions as needed. Also as we talked, we don't have an intermediate node, so there is no need of a conservation of flow constraint. And as we're not defining a location for a facility, or whether we want to open or close a facility, or selecting one, or either considering fixed costs, we're not going to use linking and binary variables. So having this, let's submit. We got it right, which is great. I invite you to click the Show answer button to see the full model formulation and analyze each one of the steps carefully. And hopefully, that will help you translate what we just did into our spreadsheet next. Once we've formulated our model, we now go to question two that is asking what is our minimum transportation cost. So if you can pause this video, give it a try. Try to incorporate all elements into your spreadsheets. Try to just build your model. Start creating all the tables that you need. Think on which is your objective function, what are the variables you're using. If you have a constraint, how is it that you are going to build your left-hand side or your right-hand side of the inequality. And find us here in a few minutes so that we do it together. Perfect. I hope that went well. If you still are struggling on how to build it, don't worry. This is why we are here for. So let's go up and read the problem statement in terms of what are the data points I'm going to bring with me to the spreadsheets. I'm starting with a blank spreadsheet so that we do it from scratch together. And the first thing I'm taking with me is the transportation cost per unit per mile. Throughout this recitation, I want to share best practices, and things that work well for us, and that are going to save some time for you whenever you're working on your exams or graded assignments. So the first one would be, be very careful when you copy paste information from the problem statement to the spreadsheet or whenever you are typing anything. It's very frequent that we make mistakes in terms of the regional settings of our software or our computer. Some regional settings will require a comma here instead of a dot if you're talking about decimal places. Some others will just consider it as a dot right as we have it in the problem statement. So if you just copy/paste, but your regional setting is not aligned with what you brought to the spreadsheet, you'll probably see an error message whenever you're trying to calculate with that number, or you're going to get a wrong result. So it's very important that we start from the very basic part of bringing the right number to my spreadsheet. So using 0.12, and I'm ready to go with the next one. Next, I'm bringing my demand in units. We're going to use that for my demand constraint. So I will just copy paste this into my spreadsheet. And I'm going to make it bigger so it's clearer for everyone. And then the next piece of information I have is the distance in miles, so I'm also bringing this with me. And we're all set to start populating our spreadsheet with the additional calculations we need and the additional elements we're missing to start working on our solver. Let's think on our objective function. In order to calculate the transportation cost, we mentioned we needed units flowing through a certain number of miles and a cost in dollars. What we're missing here are the units flowing, and this is where we're going to set our variables. So I'm going to replicate this table just to keep the format and make it easier when I'm doing the sumproduct process. This is not mile. This is now units flowing. And of course, name it as it works best for you, because this is supposed to be clear for you and easy to debug if you find any issues in the future. There's going to be an empty table because this is where I'm going to let the model populate the possible number of units flowing until it finds the optimized minimum transportation cost. And the last thing, but not least, that we need is the actual transportation cost calculation. So let's do total transportation cost here. This is going to be in dollars. And we just do some product. And the first array is going to be the miles that the units have to travel through. And then the second array I'm going to select is going to be the variables. So that means the units that could flow from each plant to the regions so that it calculates the actual cost. And then once I do have the first two elements, which are the miles and the units, I'm going to multiply this by the transportation cost per unit per mile. Having all elements together, I'm ready to click Enter, and I'm all set. Once again, let's think ahead and consider every element we may need. In order to build a demand constraint, we're going to have a left-hand side and a right-hand side element. If you go to the model formulation, you will see that the summation of units flowing to each one of the region should be at least the amount of units that we are demanded. So we're still not calculating here how many units is region 1, 2, and 3 actually receiving to compare that with the demand. So let's calculate that field. To do that, I'm just going to sum all units flowing from plant region. I'm going to copy/paste the formula here. So I'm summing each one of the regions. So flowing to each region. And then I have my total number is flowing. Great. So I would say we already have every element we need before we jump to the solver parameters, but here is what I want to give you some tips as we talked. The most important thing for us to begin with is color coding. Color coding your template will help you at many steps of the process. At the very beginning, just to see that have every element you need. Then to set the solver parameters, because you're going to easily identify, if it's a variable, where to find it and where to locate it in my solver settings. And at the very end of the process, if you get an error message at any point, you'll be able to analyze every element by itself, and understand how it works, and if it got an error or not. So color coding-- trust me-- is going to make it so much easier for you along the go. And once you get used to it, you automatically kind of implement it. So let's do it together. First, I'm going to color code my objective function. So I'm going to do this probably a light green. This will be my objective function. And this is the color. I'm going to use for D2, which is where I located my formula. The second one is going to be the variables. In most of our spreadsheets, you'll notice that we usually color code variables as yellow so not to lose them from our sight. And our variables are going to be coming here as we talk, because they are the units flowing from plants to region. So this is going to be yellow for me. Next, I'm going to color code everything that has been provided by the team in the problem statement. This is for us to double-check whenever we have to debug our model as we said, if we made any mistake when populating our spreadsheet, or if anything changed from one part of the problem to the other and we probably missed changing that as well. So let's do this as provided data. And probably, we can start by color coding this-- also the miles and the transportation cost per unit per mile. The fourth element I'm going to color code here are the calculated fields. And this is again because we want to be sure that everything that we calculated is considering every cell it should be considering. And if we add a new facility, a new region, a new plant, a new constraint, we're actually adding that to our calculations. So I'm going to do this as calculated field. And I really like to make this one light blue. And then now, I'm very happy with our spreadsheet, and I feel like we're good to go to set our solver. Let's do it together. As of now, you probably already set your solver because you've been following along with the lesson with Dr. Caplice. But if you haven't yet, please go to Data and find it in the analyze section. If you're still missing to incorporate that addon to your software, please go to the toolbox in week 0 where you're going to find a tab that has all the information on how to set your solver. Again, if you're using a different kind of software and our guidelines are not helpful for you because of different setup, please share your thoughts or questions in the discussion forum, and we will guide you through it. So now, I'll click solver, and this is what I see. The first element is to set the objective. So which is the equation we want it to minimize maximize or any goal we are providing it. So my objective function is, as we said, in this light green. So that makes it easier to identify it. Then we have three options, whether maximizing, minimizing, or a specific value. So maximizing is usually used with goals like profit or revenue. If we want to maximize profit or revenue, definitely this is what we're going to use. We also have the possibility of using the value of. This is when we want the goal to be a specific number. So if we want a goal being $1,000, then definitely this is the value we have to click. We will just type in the value of $1,000. Right now, as you know, we want to minimize total transportation costs. So I'm just clicking min here, and we're all set to continue going. The variable cells, as we said, are identified in yellow. So that's just picking our array here. And it's populated already. And then it's time to add our constraints. I'll just click Add. And this is what we talk about the left-hand side and the right-hand side of our constraint. So everything that we built on question one is now coming to reality, let's say, when we are populating our solver parameters. As we talked, here we're going to have the flow to each region. And we have to at least send the number of units they requested, so I'm going to use larger or equal than the demand. Let's think a little bit about larger, or equal, or any inequality we're using here. First thing is, if we truly want you to use a specific inequality or we want you to select equal to something, we're going to be very specific on the problem statement. So first thing is, read carefully. I think it's also a great practice to analyze what would happen if we use different inequalities. For example, if we're talking about here on minimizing costs, and we're using larger or equal, is there any chance that the model will force the units flowing to be above the demand, or is it highly likely that it will just send as many units as a requested and nothing else? Actually, if you think about it, the more units flowing in this kind of model, the higher the cost because we only have costs. It's not we're analyzing revenue or profit. So as we are talking about increasing number of units flowing, increasing number of costs, then of course, our model is only going to send as many units as we suggest and nothing else. If instead of using larger or equal, we use lower than this number, the model will not send any number of units. Why is that? Because you're telling the model to reduce your transportation cost to the minimum. So if you're not sending any units, it's a possibility that it will select not sending any units. So we need to force our model to at least send the number of units we are requested. And as we can see, we're only going to send as many units as we need. So we'll just click OK. And then let's think about the non-negativity constraint we talked about. This is just about selecting that the number of units flowing here are going to be larger or equal to 0, which means it will never be a negative number. Once we click OK, we are going to check the rest of the default settings. Make unconstrained variable non-negative. It's a healthy one to have active by default unless you need it otherwise. And then we're solving using linear programming, so this is what we're clicking here. And now we're ready to go to solve our model. I'll click Solve. I will keep the solution found by the solver. And now, we have our answer for question two. I invite you to double-check that question two is asking us to provide two decimal places. And that's a very important thing to consider, because we always tell you how to input your answer. This is very important because you don't want to miss any points in graded assignments or exams just because you're not entering your answer correctly. In order for it to be graded as it's needed, you need to input the answer considering the prompt. So please double-check if we're requesting about nearest integer, rounding up, rounding down, or if we want you to round to a certain number of decimal places. In this case, we're asking for two decimal places. So I invite you to populate this number you got, and let me know how it goes. If you have any questions, or you didn't get it right at the first attempt, I invite you to go back, try to debug your model using the different elements we talked about, and then give it another try. Or use the discussion forum to get additional support from our CTAs. Thank you, and hope to see you in part two.

## Video 2 - Solving Part 2
LAURA ALLEGUE LARA: Welcome to the Part 2 of the Blink problem recitation in optimization using spreadsheets. I hope you're having a clearer perspective now on how to build optimization models. And now, please if you haven't yet, please pause this video, read through Part 2, Question 1, and return to us in a few minutes. So the only new pieces of data were provided here is that we're now having a revenue per unit and that we're going to maximize profit instead of minimizing cost. So this is very important to adjust our model. And if we would have to change everything in our spreadsheet, it would be adding the revenue calculation, separating revenue and transportation costs, and then calculating profit, adjusting our solver to maximize instead of minimize. And we would be all set. That would imply making a lot of changes to our model, right. You probably already know this, or you will soon, that in the practice problems ungraded assignments we usually tell you to disregard one piece of data once you get to the next part of a problem. Or we ask you to evaluate different scenarios. When probably in the future, you're going to need something of the model you already built for Part 1. So as we're going to make many changes here in Part 2, our best recommendation-- and I promise it will save you a lot of time when we're working on exams, and time is precious on exams-- is to duplicate your spreadsheet instead of just overwriting it. So let's just go to our top, click Move or Copy, move to the end, same book. I will create a copy. And that's it. So I will now name this Part 1, and then Part 2. OK. So bring in this Part 2 with me being a replica of Part 1 will imply that I also bring my solver settings. This is very helpful. Because if you were building it from scratch, it will take you additional time. And if you were overwriting data, in the future if you need to go back to a previous scenario, you would also need to readjust your solver settings once again. Let's follow the same approach. We read our problem statement, identify the new components. We're bringing this piece of information to our spreadsheet. So I'm going to write here that my revenue is in dollars per unit. It's going to be 45. And that's it. That's all the new information I've got. Keeping art practice of color coding, I'm going to turn this into gray, because it's also provided information. I'm going to move everything down a little bit to have some more space to build my new objective function. You know that now transportation cost is just a piece of my objective function, because I also have to calculate the revenue. So I'm going to add the revenue calculation here. And then I'm also going to include probably here my profit. And this is what we're going to maximize. We've been told that profit for them is calculated like revenue minus transportation cost. So that would be my profit function. And then in terms of my revenue, the revenue is in dollars per unit. Miles have nothing to do here. So this is just going to be the sum of the units flowing to each region times the revenue per unit. And with that, we have our profit calculation. Let's adjust our calculated fields, and our new objective function being this one. I'll just make it numeric format. And probably we're good to go. So let's give it a try. I'll go open my solver once again. And as I mentioned, I'm going to get all the information I had from the previous Part 1, because I just duplicated my data. My objective function has actually changed. It's now profit, and I have it located in a different place. So I'm going to select it now as before. My variables are still the same. I'm still sending units flowing from plants to regions, so no changes there. I'm still keeping non-negativity constraint for the variables. I'm also keeping my demand. What I need to change now is that I'm maximizing instead of minimizing my objective function. So let's see what happens if we just solve this. OK. We got an error message, which you can clearly see. And it says that the objective cell values do not converge, which means that it can make it as large-- or small, if we were minimizing-- as it wants. And why do you think that happened? Did I miss anything when reading through the problem statement or were analyzing my data? You probably already noticed that if I got an error message, definitely I missed something. But let's think through it together. Let's go back to the problem statement and read again. So there's a small detail that we didn't notice, or probably I just skipped when we went through Question 1. And this is about keeping in mind that the units that we ship to each region can't exceed the region demand. This is something we talked about briefly a few minutes ago during Part 1 recitation. And it's related to the demand constraint and how we build it. We told the model that it could send the number of units demanded per period or above that, right. But for this profit maximization approach, if we tell the model, you can exceed the demand and the revenue is higher than the cost, then we will always have profit if we ship one more unit. The model is telling us now that it can never stop and it will never find a maximum number. Because the more units it sends, the higher the profit. And it will continue running with no ending. And that's why it's giving me an error message. So this is clearly not what we want. And also it's clearly not what really happens in real life. We don't necessarily can send anything we want to our clients. We usually have a number, a demand. And depending on the client's flexibility, if we can exceed it a little bit, but definitely it's not an infinite number of units we can send. So let's adjust our solver, and now have it all set to actually find our maximum profit. I'll click Solver again. And I will go to my demand constraint I will click Change. You can either change it or delete it and add it again correctly. It will just change it. And what we're going to say is, according to the problem statement that I cannot ship anything more than what they are demanding. So I need to ship exactly what they want. So I'm going to just change it to equal. The arrays are OK. We can double check that by doing this. I will click OK. And I will solve my model. And you can see, we found a solution. So no error message, which is great. And we actually got the maximum profit we need to input in our Question 1 on Part 2 of this Blink problem recitation. I invite you to answer this number. Remember that you still need to use two decimal places. And please, if you have any further questions, use the discussion forum to interact with our staff team. Thank you, and see you in Part 3.

## Video 3 - Solving Part 3
PROFESSOR: Welcome to part 3 in this recitation of optimization using spreadsheets. We will start adding additional complexity as we go through the different parts of this problem. And now it's time to add a new constraint, which is related to the capacity of the assembly plants. If you haven't yet, please pause this video. Go through the problem statement. Try to populate your spreadsheet with the new numbers, and return to us in a few minutes. Hopefully, you are all set. So let's go through it together. Problem statement is telling us that there has been a disruption in spare part availability that affected capacity of our assembly plants. So let's analyze what are the elements that now we have in our problem? Please also double check that the profit maximization approach has been disregarded by the team analyzing these results. So this is what we talk about in terms of not overriding your model as you go through different parts of a problem but actually having it in different tabs of your spreadsheet. So as of now, if I need to replicate one of the models, the one closer to what I need is the one in part 1, not the one in part 2. So this is why we suggest you to do every part of every problem in different tabs. And I promise, it's not adding extra effort or extra time. It will save you a lot of time. Question one, as you know, is going to ask about the elements. So we're using the model in question 1. So just let's remember what we had there. We still had the objective function, the demand constraint, and the non-negativity constraint. We're still not needing binary variables, linking constraint, or conservation of flow. But we are actually needing now a supply constraint because we have a capacity one. So let's click it, submit, and see how it goes. Great. So remember, using the Show Answer button if you want to see the model formulation. And join me using the spreadsheet to find the minimum transportation cost with this new piece of information regarding capacity constraint. So we read the problem. We understood the model. We know now the elements we need. We're going to replicate part 1 model, as we talked. I'm just moving to the end, same book, creating a copy, and renaming it to part 3. And I'm ready to bring the new numbers provided in the problem statement. So to me, the best place to add the capacity constraint is near the place where we can sum all the units flowing from that assembly plant that has a capacity. So capacity is coming here for me. Now, I know we have 13,000 units for assembly plant 1 and 3,500 for assembly plant 2. You can see that it automatically color-coded for us, but it's not correct. So I'm going to change that. This is provided data, right? And the next thing we need as we talk is a calculated field that is going to consider how many units are flowing from each one of the assembly plants so that we ensure we're not exceeding our capacity. I'm going to name this column flowing from plants. And again, just make it as it's better for you and clearer for you. And I'm going to sum the units flowing from each one of the assembly plants, OK? This is going to be a calculated field, so it's light blue for me. And I think I have all the information I need to adjust my solver and find my new minimum transportation cost. However, let's pause a second and try to understand the numbers here. Let's briefly think on what happens on a model when we add a new constraint. As you know, this is the exact same model we have in part one with just one additional constraint. However, all the rest of the data points are the same. We still have that same objective function. We're still having the same costs per miles, the same miles between the two nodes. So we're just adding a new element that is the capacity constraint to an existing model. When that happens, what are the possible outcomes? If you have a model and everything else remain equal and you just add a new constraint, there are only two possible outcomes. One of them is that you don't get any different result. So if your minimum cost was a certain number after adding that constraint, it's still the same number. Or the most frequent outcome is that the minimum cost will be higher. This is because, if the model find an optimum solution without constraints, we're forcing the model to select a solution that was not optimal initially, and that will definitely require extra cost. However, this new solution will be optimal in a new scenario where we have a new constraint. So this is tricky to see without numbers. So I invite you to carefully go through the assembly plant flow. This is what we have. Remember, I still haven't set my solver, so this is coming from part one. Originally, we were sending from assembly plant 2, 4,000 units to region 2. However, we've been told that we cannot send any more than 3,500. With that, assembly plant 2 will no longer be able to fulfill the demand of that region, and it was actually the cheaper option. So now the model will force the assembly plant 1 to fulfill a part of the demand that couldn't be fulfilled by this assembly plant 2 in the cheapest option because it's closer in miles. If you go back to the lessons, you'll notice that capacity for assembly plant 2 is a binding constraint. You now know that your solution will never be better than that one you had before having this binding constraint. Capacity for assembly plant 1, though, was not binding because we were not sending any closer to the 13,000 units. So no matter how high this is, if we don't need to send those many units, our solution would not be affected by that specific constraint. Hopefully, that was clear. I assured you that's very important. So if it's not super clear, please go back. Go through it again, or go through the discussion forum to better discuss about it, see different examples. Or play with your capacity constraint and the flows and the demand so that you better understand what happens when things change in different ways. OK, so it's time now to set our solver. I go to Data Solver. The only thing I need to do is adding our capacity constraint. So the units flowing from each one of the assembly plants should be lower, actually, or equal to the capacity constraint. So this means that I can send only as many units as the capacity allows and as much as we need considering the demand, right? Those are the two constraints that we have set. And then we're all set to click Solve and see our results. We found a solution, which is OK. And then it's your turn to input this answer using the two decimal places in our question to part 3 of the Blink problem. And let me how it goes. Please remember to share your questions in the forum if you have any. And I hope to see you in part 4. We're almost there, team. Way to go.

## Video 4 - Solving Part 4
LAURA ALLEGUE LARA: OK, hope you're excited. We're getting closer to the end of your recitation, and this means we're increasing our complexity. Hopefully, you're going to enjoy this one. This is going to change your model entirely, because this is not only adding a new constraint. So if you haven't yet, please pause this video, read through the problem statement, try adjusting your model, and then join us in a few minutes so that we continue working together. If we're all ready to go, then let's do it. You notice now that we have a new note here. We have a transshipment point. We're going to send all our units from the assembly plant to a DC, from where we're going to distribute and ship all the units to the different demanding regions. So we still have our demand. That has not changed. But what did change is the cost. We are told now that we have different calls for inbound transportation, meaning from the assembly plants to the DC. And a different outbound transportation cost, which is going from DC to regions. This is going to affect our objective functions, and the fact that we have a new note is going to affect our variables. It seems we have a lot of changes to make to our model, but don't worry. No need to struggle. It's going to be an easy change. And if we go down, the first thing would be understanding the new elements of our model. So still, we have an objective function. We still have a supply constraint and a demand constraint. That has not changed. You saw that we don't have any notice on disregarding any previous data point. But the new thing here-- sorry, I missed clicking the non-negativity one, which still remains. What we're missing here is the conservation of flow constraint. This is a new one we're incorporating, and this is because we are specifically mentioned that the DC cannot keep any inventory. So conservation of flow is going to guarantee that any units flowing into the DC needs to flow out of it. So this is going to be guaranteed by the conservation of flow constraint. I'll click Submit, but please click the Show Answer button if you want to double-check the model formulation, and to better understand what is it that we need to change in this model, compared to the previous one we had in part 3. I'll read question 2, but I'm guessing we're finding our minimum transportation cost, which is actually what we're requested. So I'll go back to the problem statement, and I will bring all the new pieces of information with me to the spreadsheet. Before doing that, as you know, I'm duplicating my part 3, because demand still is there, and capacity is still there. And I want my color coding available, so I'll just use this and adjust my model. For this case, you can either replicate part 3, or start building it from scratch. Whatever works best for you. However, as you will need some data points that are in previous parts of the problem, you'll need to go back and forth. With this, I'm guaranteeing I'm not making any further mistakes when modifying anything, but just what I need to modify. So we will then organize our information. But let's first start by adding all the new pieces of data here. And then, we can adjust our model. So inbound transportation cost in dollars per unit per mile, as that is how we build our cost here, is going to be 0.04. And my outbound cost per unit per mile is going to be 0.08, per unit per mile. The additional information we have is the new distance between our nodes. So I'm going to bring it to my spreadsheet. And with this, we're all set to start adjusting our model. So what are the elements we don't need anymore? First, the transportation cost per unit per mile we had before is not necessary here. It's just going to confuse us. So I will just delete this. My demand per region has not changed, so I will keep that. What is going to change is the array that is keeping our variables. Because we now are not sending straight forward from plant origin, but to the DCs and from the DCs. So I'm going to disregard this full table, because we don't need those miles anymore. For clarity, I will just delete all this. We will need the capacity, but I will go find it in a few minutes. This is just to keep it easier for you. And as you saw before, my process for building the Variables table is just replicating the Miles tables and adjusting it as I needed. So this is not going to be miles anymore. This is units flowing. So it's variables. Now you know. And then this is an empty table. I'm going to color code it right away so that you see it very clear. And we can make a couple of changes so that we have all the information closer together. This is my preference. And once we have this, let's think on what we're missing. We talked about the capacity constraint, so we now need to add the capacity back here. We have 13,000 and 3,500. And then we also need to be sure that the units flowing are compared to that capacity. I'm adding the column, just because I want to keep the structure in my mind whenever I go to the Solver settings. And then same. I'm going to consider the region's flow to compare this calculated field with the demand. So just color coding and fixing a little bit of my format, and I think I'm ready to go in terms of the new data points. Remember to also color code everything that is provided data. And we're just missing this. As you can see, our formula needs to change, because we have changed pretty much everything in our model. So let's build it again. It's going to be having two components. The total transportation cost now will include two components, the inbound and outbound transportation cost. As a best practice, I invite you to calculate both separately, and then sum them to create the new total transportation cost. Having separate cells for the inbound and the outbound will allow you to double-check if the model is actually working as we expect. And it's making it easier when it comes to debugging your model, if you have any problems. So just as we did with the profit maximization, where we had revenue and cost in two different cells, this is where we're going to do the same with inbound and outbound costs. So I'm doing inbound total cost and outbound total cost. I will just add one row here to keep it clearer. And I'm going to calculate this. Total transportation cost is just summing inbound and outbound. Great. Inbound total cost is going to be the sum product. And as we talked, it's dollars per units per mile. So of all the units flowing on the inbound piece of our model of our network. So inbound would be units flowing from assembly plants to DC. And the second array would be the miles. You'll notice that on the first part, I did it the other way around. First, the array with the mile. And then, the array with the units. This is the exact same thing. If you are selecting the right arrays, then we're totally fine. It doesn't matter if it's first or second in the same formula. I'm closing the SUMPRODUCT formula and I'm going to multiply this by the cost per unit per mile for this section of our network. And that's my inbound total cost. Outbound is going to be very similar. It's just the SUMPRODUCT of the array of unit flowing, times the miles between DCs to regions now. We're closing this and multiplying by the unit, the cost per unit per mile, for that section. We're good to go with that. And sometimes, we're asked about, how do I make a sanity check, just to see that my model is performing as expected? So my recommendation here is that you test it. If I have any units flowing here, from assembly plant 2 to DC, then I should have an inbound cost, but not an outbound. You see it? It has just changed. Also, if I have units flowing from any DC to the regions, I should have an outbound cost. Of course, these are not aligned. I'm not considering any constraints. This is just for us to test the math behind our model. This means it works. This means that every time I have any unit flowing, it's going to actually calculate the cost. So I'll make it 0 again, not to confuse us. And I think we're ready to go to set our Solver. So I'm doing Data Solver. You know this by now. I'm still having the total transportation cost. That has not changed. It's in the same cell. Even though I adjusted the formula, the cell has not changed. So that's my reference. I'm going to minimize cost. What changed now is that I have two different arrays of variables. So not only one. As I located them in a different place, this is empty. So I'm just going to select the first array, a comma to separate them, and a second array. So variables are all set. You can see now that all my constraints have an error message, and this is because I removed many things. So let's delete. And now I will start from scratch. So we talk about needing the demand constraint. As you know, we are going to do, the units flowing to each region, should be larger or equal to the demand from those regions. I'm also going to consider that the units flowing-- actually, this one, from the assembly plants to the DC should be lower or equal than the capacity. Cannot exceed the capacity. I'm also adding the non-negativity constraint, larger or equal to 0, for my first array of variables. And then the same for my second array of variables. And then I'm only missing the conservation of flow constraint. Because we talked about that, when we thought about the elements of our model. However, I didn't include that on my spreadsheets yet, so we're not losing anything we did here. I will just close instead of solving. This will keep every changes I've made, so don't worry. I'll close it. And what we need here is a place to sum everything that goes into the DC and out of it, just to be sure that it's the same. So you can do it here, just summing up everything that comes in and minus what comes out. You can also do something like DC in and DC out, which makes it much more clearer for you. And you can just do this. This is what's coming in, and this is what's coming out. So I'll go back to my Solver. And I will now tell the Solver that everything that comes in should be equal to everything that comes out. I'll click OK. I think I'm now all set. I will just go with Solve. And we found a solution. I will click OK. And while I continue with my color coding of the calculated fields I missed, please go and try to input your answer in the question 2 of part 4 of the Blink problem. And let us know how it goes. As usual, if you face any further issues or you need debugging your model, please pause the video. Go back. Give it a try again. Or use the discussion forum for further support. Thank you. And we're almost there, team. See you in part 5.

## Video 5 - Solving Part 5
LAURA ALLEGUE LARA: Congratulations, everyone. You made it to part 5 of the Blink problem recitation and optimization using spreadsheets. I'm very proud of this team going through the recitation. So keep it up-- and mostly because we're going to solve one part of this problem that incorporates a few elements that are considered a pain point for those that work with optimization problems in spreadsheets. I promise it's easier than it seems. It's just a matter of practice and of understanding your model and how to formulate it. So I'm sure this is not going to be a pain point for you in the future. And I'm also sure you're going to be super successful when you go through graded assignments and exam questions if you went through all this recitation step by step. To finish in the same way we started, if you still haven't read Blink problem part 5, pause this video, read through it, understand the new elements of the model, probably go and try to solve question 1 by yourself, and return to us in a few minutes so that we work on the rest of this problem together. After going through the problem statement, you probably noticed what I was talking about. We are now going to incorporate not only DC2, but also fixed costs, which is probably what I was talking about in terms of pain points. As expected, we are provided with fixed cost for each one of the DCs and with the new distance, inbound and outbound. And we'll also confirm that the costs per unit per mile for inbound and outbound shipments is remaining the same we had in the previous part. Another piece of information that I think it's very relevant to our analysis is that we now have to minimize a total cost. This is no longer a transportation cost. So now we need to consider inbound and outbound transportation cost, but also the fixed cost. So this is why we have this note on fixed plus variable costs. So one last time in this recitation, let's go together through the elements. We still have the objective function and demand and supply constraint. Remember, we incorporated conservation of flow as soon as we had the DCs. And we always had this non-negativity constraint active. But now, finally, we're going to use binary variables in linking constraint because we're going to work on activating or deactivating the nodes-- so the DCs. And this is going to consider whether we want to include that fixed cost or not in our calculation to get the optimal total cost. I'll submit. And of course, click the Show Answer button if you want to see the model formulation. And let's go together to confirm that we're minimizing total cost in question 2 and that we still need two decimal places. So just keep that in mind whenever you're working on your answers. Now, go up to see what are my new data points that I need to bring to my spreadsheet so that we continue working together on that. Start by duplicating my part 4 for the last time in this problem. And I will rename it as part 5. You'll know that by now. And I'm also bring in all the new pieces of information. So I will add here D1 and DC2 Fixed Cost. This is provided data. So I'll make it gray. And we're also provided with the distances. So I'm going to add that to the existing matrix. So I'll rename DC1, DC1. And our DC2 is going to be much closer. And I'm also doing the same for the Outbound section, which is going to be here. And this is including a little bit of further away distance. That's all the new information we have. We are also told that our total cost now is different. So I'm going to show you how we adjust our model to include this. To have my objective function up above the model, I'm going to add a few rows here. Now my total cost will be the new objective function. And this is including both fixed and variable costs. So this is going to be my fixed cost. Total cost will sum both of this. And I will adjust the color coding. I promise the color coding is super helpful for debugging and for setting the solver. So if you get used to it, it won't take you any more time. And it will save you a lot of effort in the future. Let's see what else do we need to adjust. We now have been provided with new distances. So definitely, we need to adjust our variables. This is because, as you know, we're going to have units flowing to another DC. And we're not including that here. So I'm just adding some more space. I will rename this to DC1. And I will add DC2 as new variables. We can just delete that and make it yellow. Same here, the units flowing outbound-- and now we have to adjust all calculated fields before we move on into calculating any fixed cost or adding any new variables or constraints. As you can see here, I have the total units flowing to each one of the regions. And it's never too late to add a new title. So I'll name it "Flowing to regions." And I only had it for DC1. So I'm going to change this to the sum of both DCs because I can ship units from any of the DCs now. So now that's all adjust. I also need to adjust the units flowing out of the assembly plants because they can go now to two different DCs. So this is going to be helpful here, just to sum those up. Last but not least, do not forget about your initial cost calculation. Remember that we only had inbound cost flowing from assembly plants to a single DC and out of a single DC. Now we have two of them. So it's important that we double-check everything is correctly calculated. Having all calculated fields in different colors help us identify them faster and be sure we go through all of them. So inbound total cost-- we still have the same cost per unit per mile. But now we need to consider a larger array that includes both DCs-- and same for the outbound cost because we now need to consider both DC, both in the variables and in the miles. So now we are sure we're multiplying any unit's flow from each one of the DCs and to each one of the regions with the outbound cost per unit per mile. We're getting closer to it. So now we have fixed cost. How should we calculate the fixed cost that we're including in our total cost equation here? So to calculate it, we're going to use binary variables. Remember, we talked about it on the elements in question 1. And this is going to tell us if the DC is open. If 1, it means the DC is open. If 0, it means the DC is closed. We have not restricted the number of DCs it can use. So it can probably use just one of any of both or both of them at the same time. So it will definitely depend on whether the model defines it can comply with all the constraints with using just one, with using the two of them, or how should it activate or not any of the variables. So let's incorporate that as variables into our model and include it in our total cost function. To do so, I will just use sumproduct, which is saving us a lot of time. And I'm just saying multiply the fixed cost from each one of the DCs times the fact that it's open or not represented on a binary variable. And closing this, I will click Enter. You can see it's already there. It's also linked to my total cost already. And to see if it works, as we did-- and this is only in terms of the math. As you know, we're not talking about optimized result. But I want to see if I correctly set my objective function and related ones. I will write 1 here. And I need to see if it actually changed my cost. And it worked. So that means in terms of math, if I add elements to my model, if the model uses any variables, everything should be working. I will add one unit here to test my new DC. So I should now have inbound, outbound, and fixed cost. And everything should come to my total cost equation. Everything seems to be working well. And we already have our binary variable. So now it's time to set our linking constraint. You probably already noticed that unless we force our model to comply a constraint, it will prefer not to spend that cost. So as is now, as we didn't link the fact of opening or closing the DC to the units flowing to each one of the DCs, the model, if we run it as is, will definitely say, I don't want to open any DC in terms of fixed cost. However, it will not be compliant what it's actually needed in the problem statement-- that is, that if any units flow, which is actually going to happen, it should flow considering the fixed cost of the DC it's flowing through. So let's build our linking constraint so that we link this binary variable to the actual total cost equation through the units flowing. I will write down here that this is our linking constraint. And if you don't recall how to build your linking constraint, I encourage you to go back to the lesson and go through the slides to clearly have that handy whenever you're working on linking constraints. But to us, it's going to be the flow of units on a certain DC minus a binary variable times a large enough number. So let's define our large enough number. For our optimization models, the best approach is to have M as the sum of all the demand. So I'm going to write here M. And I'm going to calculate it as the sum of the demand. So that's my new M. M being the sum of demands works because you will see how it performs whenever we create a linking constraint and activate or deactivate a node. The first element we're going to consider when building our linking constraint is the flow from that DC we want to open or not. So the flow of units here-- I can probably sum them here, even though we already calculated it for in and out. And we also need to adjust that. So don't let me forget. So units flowing are here from each one of the DCs. And I'm going to do the units flowing on this DC1 minus the binary variable we assign to DC1 times a large enough number. I'm going to fix that number so that I can just copy my formula later. Then I will copy this here for DC2. And we can double-check that it's considering the units flowing from DC2, the binary variable of DC2, and also the large enough number, which hasn't moved because I fixed that into my formula. We're all set on that. So my linking constraints are all set. These are calculated fields. And as you will see if you go back to the lesson, linking constraint should be lower or equal to 0. So this is something to keep in mind when we build our solver settings. Just a heads-up if you haven't noticed-- probably you did notice-- we are missing to incorporate the DC2 conservation of flow constraint. So this is for DC1. As you know, remember that all units flowing from DC1 should be equal to all units flowing out of DC1. So now we need to add the same for DC2 so that whenever we come to the solver settings and we're almost there, we have them all ready. So I'm just going to sum all units flowing to DC2 and all units flowing out of DC2. And we should be now all set considering we have all elements we need. Let's go back together. We adjusted our total cost. This is our new objective function. It's now including fixed and transportation cost. Our fixed costs are considering a binary variable that mentions whether we open or not our DC. The total transportation cost-- it's now including our inbound with assembly plants flowing to two DCs instead of one and flowing out of DCs to the regions also. We're including the new conservation of flow constraint for the new DC. And we are also considering the linking constraint using the binary variables and the flows and the M as a large enough number. The cost has not changed per unit per mile. So that remains. And also, the demand corresponding to each region-- so I think we're good to go. I'll go to Data, Solver, and I need to adjust my objective function. Now you know it's D2 again. I'm minimizing. I need to double-check my variables. Remember that in the past, we only had one DC. And we didn't have binary variables. So I'm going to just delete these and start over. That's a new array right here for the inbound, another array for the outbound. I will remember to use comma between each array. On the third one is going to be the binary variables. Let's now check our constraints. So the first ones are the non-negativity ones. So let's adjust them as needed. You can see the first one was only considering one DC. I'm now considering both. Both of them have to comply with this non-negativity constraint. And I'm doing the same with the second constraint, which was about the outbound flow now also to include DC2. And the demand constraint has not changed. And you remembered that. Let's just double-check if it's marking the right cell. So actually, it's correct. Everything flowing to regions here should be larger or equal than the demand, which is highlighted here. That's correct. The next constraint is related to the conservation of flow. We were just saying that everything in DC1 should be going out. We're now using it for both. So I'm saying that everything flowing into both DCs should be the same that it's flowing out from both DCs. The last one we have here is the capacity constraint. We just double-check it's working well so any units flowing out of the assembly plant should be lower or equal than the capacity we have. So that's perfect. That doesn't need any changes. I'll click OK. And let's think about the new constraints. So we already added the new binary variables. We need to add the constraints saying that anything that goes here needs to be binary. So it's only allowed for 1 or 0, as we talked. And then I will add another constraint, which is related to the linking one, that says that the result of this linking constraint should be lower or equal to 0. And I will show you in a minute how does that work. But I will just click OK. And I would say we're ready to go in terms of solving the model. We actually found a solution. Solver actually found a solution where all constraints and optimality conditions are satisfied, which is great. And now you've got your answer in the total cost here. This is what we need to input in our question 2 of part 5 of the Blink problem in this recitation. But before we go, please double-check how the linking constraint works. If we happen to have units flowing in DC2 and this is not set to 1, the linking strain will become positive. And if you analyze the elements we're multiplying that we're considering flows and the total of the demand, this is how it will work. It will never be negative if this is 0. So I'll make it 1. And you can see it is actually working because DC2 is the only one open. So congratulations. After submitting the total cost as the answer of this part of the problem, you're all set and good to go. Hopefully, you have a clearer understanding on the different elements of a model, its formulation, and also, you have a better understanding on those small things that probably were pain points in the past. In the next tab, you'll find our takeaways and those small hints and tips that I provided summarized in just one slide. And I know if you keep everything we've talked about in mind whenever you go through graded assignments or exam problems, you'll definitely succeed on those. So keep it up, and see you in the next recitation. Good luck.

## Blink Problem: Key Takeaways
LAURA ALLEGUE LARA: Just wanted to give you a heads up on everything I've been insisting all along the recitation but just probably for you to keep them in mind at all times. First, getting familiar with your spreadsheet and keyboard regional settings, that's very important so to ensure that you're bringing all the information from the problem statement to your spreadsheet with no errors. Read the problem statement carefully. Probably this is something that you already know. But sometimes we read through all the problem statement just looking for a number and we go very fast through it and we're missing some key data points like disregarding a piece of information or going back to a certain scenario. It's very important to double check all the wordings that we shared, and remember, we're never trying to trick you. So if you need to have any piece of information, you'll find it on the problem statement. The next would be doing the best use of your time by not overwriting your models and color coding all elements. Trust me, these two small and very simple practices will save you a lot of time mostly when you're working on exams. You know exam windows are limited, and this is very important for you to actually use your time wisely in solving the problem and not just in replicating things you probably already did before but overwrote because you didn't notice. I would also add using how to debug your model guide. This was created so that you go step by step identifying what could be wrong with your model. So I encourage you to use that as one of your resources if you don't get the result you expect. And at the end, remember that as Dr. Caplice says, models are not making the decision. People is actually making that decision. So do not just run the solver once you have it all set. Think about the possible outcomes first as we did with the constraints. What is it that we expect to happen after we run the solver? And once we run it, analyze the results. Gather some insights out of it. Why do you think something happened? Why do you think the cost is higher or lower? Why do you think we got a better profit or not? And how would the model change if we change any of the variables or if we change any of its elements? Understanding our data will allow us to make better decisions so I encourage you to incorporate this practice as you go through the course. So it's time to move on now. Good luck with your optimization problems using spreadsheets and keep us posted on how it goes on the discussion forum and bring all your questions. We're here to help you. Good luck.
