# week09 lesson1 cash flows

(SC2x video lecture transcript)

## Introduction
Our first lesson this week focuses on cash flows. We're going to talk a lot about cash flows this week. The different types of cash flows inside of a firm, the magnitude and the timing of cash flows. And most importantly, we'll learn how to describe our supply chain designs in terms of cash flows. So we'll start by introducing, again, revisiting the concept of a supply chain being comprised of three types of flows, physical, information, and financial flows. And we're really going to focus on these financial flows throughout this whole week because they form the basis of evaluating our supply chain designs. The decisions that are made inside of a firm regarding budgeting, where to put budgets, as well as the way that the firm describes how it's creating value for investors are all based on financial flows. And most specifically, what we'll get to toward the end of the lesson are free cash flows. These are the basis for evaluation. So no matter which metrics you use to come up with your designs or describe them within the supply chain organization, we will need to boil them down to free cash flows in order to compete for resources and budget with other groups inside the firm. So it's an important process. So we're going to get to free cash flows at the end. On the way we'll start with a brief review of corporate finance. For those of you familiar with corporate finance, it'll make sure that we're on the same page in terms of the terminology we're using. For those of you less comfortable with finance, it may help you focus on the most relevant concepts that we're going to cover this week and identify where you may want to bone up a bit more on those concepts. Then we'll dive into different types of cash flows. We have to first describe how we're going to estimate the cash flows in the future that are going to be based on the designs we're coming up with. And these are the projected cash flows. Then we'll learn how to distinguish which of the cash flows are specifically relevant to our initiatives, the designs that we're coming up with in our supply chain, and make sure we're only counting the ones that are relevant. And then we'll combine these into the free cash flows. And we have a framework and a structure for you to do this and show some examples of how to take supply chain designs and turn them into free cash flows. We'll close this lesson with a bit more discussion of working capital. Working capital is something that almost every one of our supply chain initiatives is going to have an impact on. And it's often difficult to think about how this capital becomes a cash flow. So we'll spend some time talking about that as well. All right, let's get started.

## Financial Flows and Evaluation
We begin this lesson by considering the financial flows in our supply chain, and start to understand how we'll use financial flows to evaluate various supply chain design options. So, as we've seen before, the supply chain is comprised of three flows. There is the physical flow of goods that go from suppliers to our firm and that we then turn into finished goods that we supply to our customers. In return, our customers pay us for those finished goods, and then we pay suppliers in the form of money for the goods that they send us. To enable those physical and financial flows to happen, we also have information flows, or data, to communicate across the supply chain. So we've seen this before. We've also seen how the supply chain can be comprised of multiple firms. So instead of manufacturing our goods ourselves, we could contract it out to a contract manufacturer. Instead of running our own transportation fleet, we could also use a third-party logistics provider to do our warehousing and/or our transportation. And so the physical goods may actually not even flow inside of our firm at all. It may not enter our facilities. It may flow completely through third parties. However, the financial flow almost always occurs through our firm. The customers will pay us for the goods that are being provided, and we will then pay our suppliers, as well as the service providers that we contract, in our supply chain. Now, the design of the supply chain is not only about how we're going to make the physical flows move across organizations but the financial flows can happen differently as well. So, for example, I've added some different arrows here as an alternative to paying suppliers directly. We could instead pay more to our contract manufacturer and then have the contract manufacturer pay the suppliers. And the design of how these flows happen across the supply chain, as well as the timing of those flows, will have an impact on the value that we're creating and therefore on how valuable our supply chain designs are. So we'll be also considering the financial flows and the design of those in addition to the physical flows when we consider our supply chain. Beyond the flows between parties in our supply chain, we also have some flows inside of our company, inside of our firm, that we have to consider. And those are our investments we're making internally in our supply chain. So, first of all, before we make an investment, we have to have money, or capital. The primary source for capital for a firm is from its stockholders, or equity investors, and those stockholders purchase stock in our firm to give us capital. The firm may then contract out with debtors, banks, or bond holders, to raise additional capital to expand that pool of capital that can be used for investments. And there's a contraction contractual agreement that we'll pay back those debtors. For example, if you borrow money from a bank you'll have a loan contract where you have to pay them back in a certain period of time. There's nothing not a contractual agreement with our investors, our equity investors, but we hope we'll be able to make enough money to pay them back. How are we going to do that? Well, again, we're going to be taking this capital and investing it inside of our firm, inside of our operational assets. And those investments are things that the supply chain professionals in the organization will be involved in. We may not be deciding how to raise the capital-- down here, the allocation of debt and equity-- but we are definitely involved in determining how to invest it in the operational assets because we are the ones that are helping to design the supply chain where those assets are going to be deployed. In addition, we'll manage those assets and the partners in our supply chain to generate future cash flows. And, hopefully, by managing the supply chain well, our revenues will be greater than our expenses. And, therefore, we will make money. If we cover more than our expenses and the amount of money required to invest in our assets, we will make money. And if we make enough money we will then be able to fulfill the promise we've made to our equity investors in paying them a dividend. Now, the comparison to how well we're doing is really a comparison that our stockholders will make versus other options they have. So they could invest their money elsewhere, in financial assets, and then create a portfolio of options that will give them future returns. So their investment in our firm is a part of their portfolio that they're investing in. And, given our ability to provide the returns in the form of dividends to our investors, we will be attractive to investors or not compared with other assets they can make. So that's the basic proposition, is we're trying to do a good job managing our supply chain and our operations, which is the primary way that you create value in a firm. So when you look more broadly at the financial flows in the supply chain, and it's not just the flows we saw earlier that aligned with the physical flows, but also we have some internal flows inside of our firm in the form of operational assets. So those asset investments, we have the expenses we pay to our suppliers and service providers, we hopefully will get enough revenues to cover both of those. And, if we do that, we will then also have to pay some taxes. So these are the basic financial flows that will occur in the supply chain that we have to consider when making decisions about our designs. I want to give a few examples of some of the investments we can make inside the firm. And these are, again, components of our supply chain design. So, for example, we could add a new warehouse to be closer to our customers and provide them better service, and then hopefully drive more revenue. We could also invest in more inventory, put more stock on the shelf, give our customers more selection. And, therefore, they'll make more purchases. And, again, drive more revenue. We could add a production line and expand our manufacturing capacity, and produce more goods. And, again, drive more revenue. And you're seeing a theme here. We could also invest in a truck fleet and maybe provide better service than what our contract carriers could provide, or we can do it more efficiently. And, in this case, maybe not drive more revenue but reduce our costs by having our own fleet rather than contracting it out. So hopefully our investments will either drive more revenue or will reduce the ongoing expenses we have in our firm, and, therefore, allow us to make money, have positive cash flows. Our firm may be in a situation where it wants to reduce investments, where they may need capital and don't want to go raise it from debt holders. And, therefore, they want to reduce the investments that are required in the firm to free up capital. In that case, we may be doing some of the opposite of the investments. And that would be, instead of adding a warehouse, we'll close a warehouse. And, instead of adding inventory, we're going to reduce inventory. Instead of expanding our production and transportation, we may outsource it to other firms so that we don't even have to invest in assets at all. We don't have to own a fleet of trucks at all. We could outsource it to a transportation provider. Again, we'll pay them more in terms of expenses, but we won't have to have that operational investment in the assets. So there's a lot of decisions that are made whether we're going to invest or divest in assets in our firm. And then that raises the question, well, who decides which investments or divestments to make, and how do they do it? Well, who decides basically comes down to, who has the money? The corporate finance people are the managers of the money. They're the ones that raise the money, and therefore they determine how it's allocated. However, there's a nice quote from a very standard financial textbook used in corporate finance classes that emphasize that it's more than the finance specialists that are involved in these decisions, both in terms of not only in evaluating which ones are good, but also generating them. How do we come up with ideas for investment proposals? And this is the ongoing responsibility for all managers throughout the organization, not just the finance people. And so our ability to generate these supply chain designs is going to be key in coming up with good ideas for positive investments in the firm. But we will also need to understand how they will be evaluated. And that's what we're going to focus on during this week. I'll give you a little glimpse into how that evaluation process works as a pathway of where we're going. And that's how-- this answers the question, how do they decide what to invest in? There's usually a pretty standard process that corporate finance uses that begins by first estimating all of the relevant cash flows that are involved in this particular investment. Once we've estimated all of the cash flows, we calculate what's called a figure of merit to come up with a value of the particular investment over all. And then we compare that figure of merit, or that value, with some kind of an acceptance criterion. So if we look at this part of the larger diagram we saw earlier, the key to evaluating an investment is by starting by looking at all of these cash flows, here, and turning that into some kind of a figure of merit. And once we've combined them all together-- including the initial investment, here, that happens-- we combine all of these cash flows in the initial investment to come up with a figure of merit. And then we compare this with a criterion. And once we've compared it with that criterion we can make a decision. And that's usually a pretty transparent process inside many firms and that the corporate finance people will do in a process called capital budgeting. This process will also often be applied toward projects, which may not be an investment in assets-- physical assets-- but may require our firm to expend some money in terms of human resources, for example, to conduct a project. So your supply chain design may not require any physical assets, but it may require time from staff. And that decision of whether to allocate budget for that staffing and those human resources may follow a similar process in terms of evaluation. So to sum up this segment, I want to close with one more quote from that finance textbook that was mentioned earlier that describes this broader process and the importance of the different aspects. So the calculation of the figure of merit, which we mentioned was a second part of the evaluation process, requires an understanding of the time value of money and a basic understanding of algebra. And we'll talk about those in the next lesson. But it's often more difficult-- even though algebra may be tricky-- it's often more difficult to determine what are the relevant cash flows with a particular given investment. And that's what we'll focus on in this lesson one, here. We'll spend a lot of time talking about different cash flows in our supply chain, which ones are relevant, and how we assemble them together to create the basis for calculating our figure of merit, which is what we'll discuss in more detail in lesson two.

## Quick Review of Corporate Finance
Before I dive into the specifics of determining the relevant cash flows, we're going to do a quick review of corporate finance to make sure we're using common terminology. And also, introduce the financial statements again to provide a framework for us to consolidate these cash flows. So the financial statements we're going to use going forward to consolidate all the relevant cash flows are the balance sheet and the income statement. You may be familiar with these, but I want to go through again quickly to make sure we're using the common terminology, and to also highlight which aspects of the balance sheet and income statement we're going to be considering. So the balance sheet is a snapshot of the firm's value at any given time. It consists of assets, liabilities, and then whatever's left over is the shareholders' equity or the net worth of the company. So in terms of assets, the things we're going to consider, at least in current assets that are current year, are going to be our supply chain designs that we're going to consider are the accounts receivable and the inventory. There are the things that our supply chain design will affect, and that will be consumed in the current year. These are current assets. We also have some things that will be used over several years, over future years, the property, plant, and equipment. We are going to consider things like warehouses or manufacturing equipment, trucks, and so forth. And we'll also have to consider the depreciation of those assets over time. So that's the primary assets we're going to look at. In terms of liabilities, there's again current and long term liabilities. And the ones that our supply chain design will mostly affect is how we pay our suppliers in terms of accounts payable. Finally, in terms of shareholders' equity, that's what's left over the end. We do want to understand retained earnings, because that's going to be the critical value that we're creating in our firm. But we'd like to break that down further. And that's what the income statement does for us. So the income statement describes the performance between those snapshots on the balance sheet. And it explains why retained earnings has changed over time. It breaks it down for us very nicely. And most of the components of the income statement are things we're going to consider in our supply chain design evaluations. That starts at the top line, the revenue or sales. We'll use the term revenue. And that's the amount that's net the markdowns or discounts we may provide to incentive the customers to buy things. We also then subtract that as a separate line item, the cost of the goods sold, the material costs, the direct labor costs. These are direct cost related to any particular product that we sell. And we will use the term cost of goods sold or COGS. Subtracting those gives us our gross income. We then subtract operating expenses that can't necessarily be attributed to one particular product, but are accumulated as operations across all products. And we'll use the term operating expenses. Although a lot of times this is referred to as selling, general, and administrative expenses, or SG&A. So we will definitely consider these operating expenses. And then subtracting the operating expenses from the gross income gives us our operating income. There's another flavor of operating income, and we'll distinguish them in the minute here. But when we take out the depreciation for the longer term assets that we're going to incorporate in our supply chains, we definitely want to incorporate that depreciation into our analysis because it'll affect our income. And therefore the cash flow is related to the income that we generate. Amortization is of non-tangible goods. So we probably won't have much non-tangible goods in our supply chain. So it's mostly depreciation. And then finally, there's things-- the interest, other non-operating expenses. Obviously we wouldn't include non-operating expenses. Interest is incorporated in a special way. And we will describe that in terms of evaluating the supply chain design that's incorporated in the discounted cash flow analysis that we'll talk about in the future. So it's directly a cash flow we're going to estimate. We're going to implicitly incorporate that in our analysis. We will consider the income taxes though because that is a cash flow that's relevant dependent on how well we perform up top. And then obviously we will ignore the extraordinary items. And that gives us our bottom line income. So those are the main components. Most of the income statement we're going to incorporate. Just again for terminology, to distinguish the two types of operating income, EBIT is this part that's earnings before interest and taxes. The interest and taxes below here. So EBIT subtracts out the earnings that come before that. And right above that is the earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization. So again, to distinguish those terms, we'll use the terms in a bit later on as well. Also, I want to quickly review the difference between short and long term expenses. The short term expenses are things that will be included in this year's income statement. At the operating expenses, as we mentioned, is the term we're going to use. The longer term investments are called capital expenditures, or CapEx. And this is for assets that have a useful life beyond this current year. Therefore, we wouldn't incorporate all of the costs as an operating expense for this year's income. So we instead report it on the balance sheet. But yet, we depreciate it over time. And that depreciation will affect our income statement as well. And there's also possibly a salvage value at the end that we may want to incorporate in any investments we make in capital expenditures. Now some expenses could be either a capital expenditure or an operating expense. A good example is information technology which often changes quickly, and therefore could actually only have a useful life of one year. So for example, some companies may replace computers every year. In that case, it may be appropriate to consider it an operating expense. And there is some choice that accountants can make in doing this, whether you capitalize an expense and make it a capital expenditure, or whether you can incorporate it as an operating expense. And this will change our income and our tax burden. And let me give you a little example why. So let's assume our firm-- including everything else except for our computer purchase-- makes $5,000 a year. And we have a $3,000 computer. So we're investing $3,000. So if we make it a capital expense, a CapEx, then we will depreciate that over three-- let's say it have a useful life of three years. We'll depreciate it over three years. And that gives us then an income of 4,000 each year. But if instead we wanted to make it an operating expense, then that 5,000 over the three years is the same. But our expenses are all incorporated in that first year. The full cost of the computer to give us a $2,000 profit. And then there's no cost in the future years to give us 5. So the total in the end ends up being the same $12,000, but how that accumulates in terms of our income or reporting, if we capitalize it, we show more income this first year and less in future years. But it also changes the tax burden because it we'll show more income here. So therefore, we'll pay more taxes. So that's how that decision affects the cash flows. And a firm will often have rules and practices for this. We won't get into the details of whether it should be a capital expense or an operating expense, because you'll have to check with the accountants in your firm for any particular situation. Finally, the other aspect we want to consider and make sure we're on the same page is working capital and how we consider working capital. So the general definition of working capital is current assets minus current liabilities. But the part we're going to really focus on is this cash to cash cycle, the accounts receivable, the inventory, and the accounts payable. These are the parts of the supply chain design that we really affect. The other parts of working capital are not things that we affect completely in our supply chain design. So it's good to remember that the working capital-- the requirements we have for working capital are actually an investment. We have to finance these things. So we'll finance the accounts receivable-- or AR is an abbreviation-- because we're basically enabling our customers to pay later. Therefore, we have to carry the capital to finance that. We also obviously have to have the capital for inventory in our firm before it's purchased. So we're investing in these things. We get some relief in terms of our working capital requirements from our suppliers who allow us to pay later in terms of the form of accounts payables, or AP, which is an abbreviation for accounts payable. And so the net working capital requirement is the accounts receivable plus the inventory minus the accounts payable. That's a term we'll use for working capital. And we're really not going to consider these other aspects when we're looking at working capital investments. Now our supply chain design will definitely be able to influence these requirements by enabling us to collect payment as quickly as possible by preserving our customers well. Obviously by keeping our stock levels as low as possible without hurting our revenues, we can improve our capital situation. And if we delay paying suppliers as long as possible, that will help things as well. So there are aspects of working capital that we will influence on our supply chain design. And we want to consider how we incorporate those investments in evaluating our design.

## Projected Cash Flows
OK, let's dive into cash flows themselves. And one of the aspects we're going to have to think about with cash flows is how we project them into the future. Why is that? Remember our investment valuation is considering how we're going to invest in assets to generate future cash flows. So, we need to then estimate what those cash flows will be in the future in order to determine if this investment is actually worthwhile. So, cash flows are money that comes in and out of our firm and it happens over time. It's a combination of cash inflows, which are considered positive inflows into our company, and cash outflows where we spend money and it's negative-- cash is leaving the firm and it's a negative number. Here's a list of the kinds of things that we will consider in our projected cash flows. And it might be good for you to take this list, pause the video for a moment, and think about whether each of these is an inflow into the firm or an outflow out of the firm. And maybe you could mark each one with a plus sign if it's a positive in inflow and a negative sign if it's an outflow. OK. Hopefully you had a chance to think about the different types of cash flows and consider whether they're inflows or outflows. We'll start with the first one. Original investment is going to be an expense-- we're spending money upfront to invest-- so money is leaving the firm and it will be an outflow. Increased revenues, which we hope will get a significant amount to offset the investments, will be inflows into our firm-- we're getting money into the firm so it's positive. Another kind of increase is we could have increased costs that go with the particular initiative. And an increase in cost means that more money is leaving the firm, and therefore it's an outflow. On the flip side, if we can reduce costs, which hopefully we can do with our supply chain designs, we can reduce the amount of cash that's leaving the firm, and therefore that's a net positive or an inflow into the firm. By avoiding spending we're having an inflow into the firm. If our initiative actually has a diminishing impact on revenues then there's less money coming into the firm and that's a negative cash flow. At the end of the project we may have some assets that remain and have some residual value and we can sell those assets, and therefore a salvage value of any assets at the end will give us a positive cash flow-- money coming into the firm. And on the flip side, at the end of the initiative we may have some close down costs, which would be an outflow. So, you can see there's a mixture of positive and negative cash flows and they happen over time. So, one way we draw these pictures, the positive cash flows being arrows upwards and the negative cash flows being arrows downwards, could look like this. So it's a series of cash flows-- positive and negative-- they happen at various times-- it looks a little bit messy. So, one thing we're going to have to do is group these or aggregate these cash flows into tidier buckets, and we need to define some time periods then. We're going to aggregate the cash flows, add up all the cash flows over a certain time period. Those time periods are often either monthly, quarterly, or annually-- on a yearly basis. And so given the nature of our supply chain designs are typically a little longer term and a lot of the capital budgeting that happens in the firm ends up being over a longer period of time or an annual budgeting process will often have buckets of annual time periods. And for most of the exercises in this week we'll consider annual time buckets. Now common practice assumes that the cash flows occur at the end of the projected period. So the income statement transactions, the things that happened throughout the year-- the revenues that come in, the material cost we spend, the COGS, the other operating expenses we have-- those would accumulate throughout the year-- throughout the time period. And therefore we would account for those, add them all up and account for them, at the end of the period or at the end of the year. Balance sheet transactions are a little different because they could happen more immediately. And so therefore you want to try to group them around the annual time bucket when they happen. And generally one of the things that you want to consider is that they could happen immediately or very soon to immediately after the project begins. So obviously an initial investment in some kind of assets might happen right away but we could also have, for example, a reduction in inventory. And that could happen very close to time zero because when we make our first purchase order we purchase less to replenish our inventory, and therefore we reduce that working capital right away. So, you can have some cash flows and period zero but generally we'll move them to the end of the time period in which they occur. So for our example here, those blue arrows could be grouped a little bit more tidily into time buckets that are these black arrows that are at the end of the time period, we add them together. And you can take out your ruler if you want, I think I measured them pretty well, so that the arrows should add up in a cumulative way that the two positive ones here add up to be this larger one. And the positive and the negative offset each other to give us a net of positive cash flow. And so there's offsetting positive and negative cash flows over time and we group them all into the end of the time period. So these two are grouped into this one and these three are all added together into this one. If we did this in terms of numbers, again, this is fairly representative-- I measured the arrows so hopefully the numbers should be right-- but if we had different cash flows over those periods we add them all up together and get our cumulative cash flows. And this is what we'll use for our projections-- an easier number that adds up all the various cash flows that happened throughout the period. The next question is how long should our time horizon be? How many periods should we include in our analysis? And this depends, oftentimes the decision makers will want to include the time period when there's the most dynamic periods of activity-- when things are changing-- and wrap it up with some kind of a steady state when the cash flows are stabilized in some way. However, if you go too long waiting for that steady state, the uncertainty in being able to project or estimate what those cash flows will be-- it increases over time, so we're less confident of the cash flows that are in the future. So you don't want it to be too long. There's no right answer and the decision makers involved in the particular decision will have to come to some agreement on this. But once you decide the time period you're going to have to figure out how to wrap the project up, or the initiative up. And there's two ways to do this. One is you actually consider that all of the activities end up in a salvage cash flow. So for example, if you have assets at the end you're going to sell those and have a positive cash flow of those sales. You're going to recover the working capital that you may have deployed in the project. Or you may have costs to close things down and you have to have those costs at the end. And you try to account for all the costs that would wrap up the project in a salvage value. The other option is to consider that the initiative you've implemented is something that will continue indefinitely and in such a way where you can estimate the value of the cash flows that comprise a perpetuity. And we'll talk more about what a perpetuity is later, but this is just a way of considering that the cash flows may happen indefinitely and we can we come up with a value to estimate that at the end of our time horizon. One final consideration is inflation. Our cash flows that happened initially in the first year may increase over time with inflation. And we have to think about how we incorporate that. There's two ways to do it. The most common way is people consider nominal cash flows, which is incorporating inflation in the prices and the cost directly. So for example, if you have a revenue and you in period one, two, and three-- let's say these are years-- and we have a 3% annual inflation, then our revenue in period one may be 100 but in period two would be 103 and in period 3 would be 106-- I think a little bit more than that, 106.1. So our revenues would keep going up nominally with the rate of inflation. Now some of the cash flows don't go up over time. So for example, if we had depreciation that would be maybe 10 in year one it would stay 10 throughout because if we have a straight line depreciation. So, there may be a mixture of different inflation rates. Some of them not having inflation at all for the different components. And your salaries may go up at different rates than your raw materials, et cetera. So it can get a little complicated to incorporate all these different inflation rates. To simplify that, you may take inflation out completely and use what we call real cash flows. The flip side is that some of these cash flows that do remain constant over time have to be-- depreciation being one, it's a flat line number-- have to be reduced according to the rate of inflation to make it equivalent. This gets a little complicated as well. And in the end, once you decide whether you're going to use nominal or real cash flows you'll have to use a discount rate in doing your analysis. And we'll describe more about that in the next lesson, but the discount rate has to match with the choice of real or nominal cash flows. You can have a real discount rate or a nominal discount rate. In general, I'm giving an introduction to the inflation but I'm also going to say to simplify our exercises we're going to ignore inflation. It's something you'd want to consider in a particular initiative, but to make them the concepts a little easier to understand and the math little easier to follow we're going to ignore inflation in the exercises that we conduct this week.

## Relevant Cash Flows
So we just discussed projected cash flows. We're now going to talk about relevant cash flows. What makes a cash flow relevant? Why is this important? Let's come back to our overall evaluation process for an investment or a project. And we noted that, in the project cash flows, we're talking about how to estimate the future cash flows or project them into the future. But we have to make sure also, in this first step, that all the cash flows we are projecting are relevant to the particular investment or project that we're evaluating. So we asked the question, what is a relevant cash flow? We have two principles to help us answer that question. The first principle seems pretty obvious. And that's the cash flow principle that only cash flows where money moves are relevant. So if there's a cash flow where money's not moving, it's not relevant. It kind of seems self-evident that, when there's a flow, there's money moving. But we'll see it can be difficult to assess that at times. The second principle is with or without. So we're only going to consider cash flows relevant if they are different with the investment than without the investment. Or if we're looking at a project, with the project or without the project, any cash flows that differ between those two are relevant and any of the ones that don't differ are not relevant. Let's talk more specifically about these principles. The cash flow principle-- again, money has to move to be counted. So it's either money that's going can be received by the firm or it's a cash inflow or paid out by the firm as a cash outflow. But if the money's not moving in or out of the firm, we don't count it. So some examples of things that are not cash flows are accrual accounting. Accrual accounting may register income when it's earned, when we make a sale. But cash hasn't moved yet. So it's not a cash flow until the cash moves. Some other costs that we will incorporate into our financial statements, like depreciation, are also not cash movements. There's not cash moving with depreciation. The cash related to depreciation all moves when we purchase the asset upfront. Depreciation is a cost where there's no cash movement in the future. In addition, we have to think about whether cash is moving in and out of the firm. So if there is internal budgeting transactions that are equal and it's just internal and there's not a change in cash flows, then that's not relevant. It's not a cash flow. So for example, a headcount transfer where somebody is removed from one group and added to another-- so say we are able to do our work more efficiently in our supply chain group and we can reduce headcount. If that person is then deployed to a different group in the firm, then there's no cash flow related. Because the salaries are still being paid by the firm, even though our internal budget may go down. The flip side is, if we are able to identify employees who are being freed up in another group and use them on our projects, we won't have to incorporate their salary in our project cash flows either. So that internal budgeting is all within the firm. Cash is not moving in or out of the firm. Therefore, it's not a relevant cash flow. The with or without principle is really focused on whether things are incremental and incremental to a particular project or investment, not the overall cash flows in our firm, the overall revenues or costs. And we're not talking about before the project or after the project. But actually, since we're always looking at projecting future cash flows, it's not before or after. But it's better to think about it as two worlds, with or without the project. So we have two directions. We're here in the present. If we're looking forward into the future, if we have time going forward, then we have a with scenario and a without scenario. And what we're looking at is, in the with scenario, what cash flows we have. In the without scenario, how are they different? And we're measuring the cash flows that are different between those two scenarios. And so, the incremental cash flows are the cash flows with the project minus the cash flows without the project. So we'll subtract these two, get this difference to determine the relevant cash flows. And therefore, because we're talking about with or without the project or the investment, obviously, the cash flows are going to be directly related to that project. And they're going to be incremental. Also this is an example of things that are not cash flows, future revenues or costs that will accrue regardless of whether we make this decision to invest or to implement a project. So it won't, again, be all the revenues in our firm but any incremental revenues from implementing a particular initiative. Things that are also not cash flows are overhead costs. Even though they may be operating expenses-- like rent and utilities or supervisor salaries-- if they don't change as a result of implementing the project, with the project, then they're not a cash flow. Even though we may think that by taking inventory out we won't have to use as much utilities in a warehouse, it's not necessarily the case that, with or without the project, we would change our utility consumption. Let's think about these principles in a few different cost categories to get more specific. We talked about depreciation earlier. And again, depreciation is related to an asset that's been purchased already. Therefore, the cash flow happened when we purchased the asset. The full cash flow for the cost of that asset happened earlier. But the accountants will depreciate this over time and incorporate them in our income statement over time. But there's not money moving. Even though we show it in the income statement, there's not actually money that's moving when those depreciation amounts are incorporated in the income statement. However, the depreciation will reduce our income on the income statement. And therefore, it will affect our taxes. We'll have less income as a result of that depreciation, therefore less taxes. And taxes are relevant cash flow. So it's important to incorporate depreciation into our calculations, because of the tax impact. But we'll have to add it back in and make sure that we don't account for the actual depreciation as a cash flow in our analysis. And we'll show you how to do that in a future segment. Another type of accounting cost that we have to consider is overhead. We just set that overhead costs are generally not going to be relevant. Because with or without, they may not change. And they may not be incremental. However, there are situations where overhead could be associated with the scale of the firm. And by adding a new product line, we may have to actually add some headcount to manage that from a marketing perspective or a product perspective. Or if we add equipment, we purchase new equipment, we may need to add some special expertise in terms of maintenance or add more maintenance time. And we can really directly link it to with or without. So you have to make sure the overhead expenses. Although in general, overhead may not be affected by with or without, there may be situations where, as we grow enough, we can identify a specific cash flow difference. Sunk cost is another kind of cost we have to think about. And it's tempting to include these, because it's money that's spent. You've spent the money. But we can't recover it. So it's spilled milk in one sense. And the sunk cost should be ignored. In other words, we don't cry over spilled milk. It happened in the past. We can't change what happened in the past. Therefore, we should only look to the future and the cash flows that happen in the future. This seems pretty obvious. But it can be tricky to implement. And there's an example I'm going to give you of a government contractor in the past. They were seeking a federal guarantee for a loan, because they wanted to continue developing a new major technology. They'd spent a lot of money developing this new technology and needed more money and more capital to keep the project going. And there were two arguments that were made in that situation. One is, it's foolish to abandon a project, because we've already spent $1 billion. We should keep going. Whereas, the other side is, we shouldn't continue a project that we can't get a decent return on. If we can't finish the project-- we've spent $1 billion-- we shouldn't continue it going forward. So which argument is correct? Hopefully, you realize that this is sunk cost and both of the perspectives are wrong. The sunk cost is irrelevant. And especially when you have a large amount of money-- like $1 billion-- it's tempting to incorporate that in your analysis. But it happened in the past. It's not a future cash flow. Therefore, it's not relevant. Cash isn't going to change with or without any future decisions. Opportunity costs are another tricky cost to consider in applying these principles. So an opportunity cost is any cash flow from an alternate option that we will forgo, because of our decision to invest or to implement a project. And we have to have a clear difference. So let's illustrate this with a couple examples. So let's say we have some land that we are planning to sell. That sale will proceed if we don't build on it. So we want to add a warehouse. There's some land that we own. We're deciding whether we build the warehouse or not. And the cash from that sale of the land that would happen if we don't build is an opportunity cost. Another type of opportunity cost is some capacity that may be idle currently, but it has a planned use. So maybe we have a factory line that's down. But somebody's planning to use in the future. Or some warehouse space that's free, but there's a planned use for it. So do we account for the cost of this space or not? It's idle space. Therefore, we think maybe we shouldn't incorporate that. But do we incorporate this opportunity cost or not? The answer is opportunity costs should be included in the evaluation. Again, thinking the with or without principle-- in terms of the land sale, if we implement our warehouse and build our warehouse, with the warehouse we will not sell the land. But without the warehouse-- because they're planning to proceed forward in selling the land-- we're going to forgo the sales revenue. So therefore, it would be relevant cost. Likewise, idle factory lines or warehouse space that has a planned use-- it may be idle now or may be empty warehouse space. But there was a plan to put a new product line either in the factory or in that space. If you forego that plan because of your decision to implement your project, then that opportunity cost of that plan is something we have to incorporate. It's a relevant cost, even though it's not something that's currently happening. The key in all this is there has to be a plan in place. It's something that you're going to clearly forgo this because you would proceed to sell the land or because you would plan to use the idle space. So the key is the intention. It has to be already planned and that we're now going to forgo this. One kind of opportunity cost that is a bit special is any capitol that we free up through our projects. That capital could be reinvested. And there could be an opportunity cost for those investments. But the capital-- the actual capital that we can free up-- is something that we don't incorporate in our analysis, because of the nature of how we do our discounted cash flow analysis. And we'll get to that in the next session. It's implicitly incorporated in how we do our analysis. Therefore, the capital the we are able to free up-- we don't consider any opportunity costs of investing that capital. Let's finish this segment by considering a specific example and seeing how we can determine what cash flows will be relevant. So it's a very simple scenario. We have a fictitious company named White Nile. They're an online retailer. And they are considering a new warehouse. They want to build a new warehouse to provide better service for their home delivery for their retail operations. It might be good now to stop the video and take out a piece of paper and write down some of the cash flows that you think would be relevant. And consider the supply chain design options that you've come across in this course thus far. And think about what kinds of relevant cash flows of costs and revenues and investments and so forth. What cash flows would be relevant in this scenario? OK, hopefully you had some time to take out a piece of paper and write down some ideas for relevant cash flows. And I'll walk through a few of them. You may have thought of some other ones. But I'll walk through a few of them and see if we came up with some of the same ideas. Well, the first one's probably pretty obvious. We're implementing a new warehouse. Therefore, with the project we have a warehouse. Without the project, we don't. So a new warehouse is clearly incremental. There's going to be cash spent. There's a cash flow happening. So it's a relevant cash flow. So you may have thought the warehouse. We also have to think about, there's also equipment that goes in the warehouse. And both of these things would be a capital expenditure. In addition, if you're thinking about better service, hopefully better service made you think that we can also generate some revenues from this. There should be a reason for adding a warehouse. And with better service, we should hopefully be able to serve our customers better, make them happier, and they'll buy more from us. So more revenue-- with the warehouse, with better service, we have to account for only the revenue that would be as a result of the better warehouse. So in the region where we provide better service, that's relevant revenue. In other regions served by other warehouses, that revenue would not be relevant. Because with or without the project, that stays the same. Also, in adding our warehouse, we have labor. Now, labor is an overhead expense. It's an operating expense. It's considered overhead. And we know that overhead can or cannot be considered relevant, depending on with or without. But this is a pretty clear case. We're adding a warehouse. With the warehouse, we need labor. Without the warehouse, we don't need that labor. So it's a pretty clear incremental change, in terms of overhead and labor for the warehouse in this situation. We also to fill the warehouse with inventory. And again, with the project, we have to add warehouse into this warehouse. Without the project, we don't have inventory. And again, we don't have information about the other warehouses or other inventory initiatives. But just for this warehouse, we have to consider the incremental inventory required to fill it up. And that would be working capital investments. And finally, one other thing you may have thought of is transportation cost. This is related to the design of our network. By having an additional warehouse, we can now-- in terms of delivering landed cost to our consumer, our customer-- we can have longer segments of our transportation in full loads to the warehouse. So we could use our own fleet, for example, fill our trucks up, and be very efficient. And then, we'll reduce the distance we're traveling from the warehouse to the customer, where it's going to be less efficient. Perhaps, we are hiring a third-party with small delivery vehicles to deliver. And that'll be a higher cost-per-mile. So we're reducing the distance for those less efficient shipments to the customer. And therefore, overall, we should lower our transportation costs, which is a lower operating expense. And it would be relevant because, with the warehouse we make this change, without, we don't. So hopefully, this example helps you think about what cash flows are relevant or not. We'll use this example again later on. And we'll put some numbers to it to see how this particular situation could be evaluated.

## Free Cash Flows
In this segment, we're going to consider another kind of cash flow, and that is a free cash flow. And we'll show how free cash flows help us pull everything together in evaluating our supply chain initiatives. So let's start by asking the question, what are free cash flows? This doesn't sound intuitive, because there's obviously no such thing as free cash. But we will show how cash is freed up by considering this overall investment process that we discussed earlier. So the value proposition of the firm is to invest money internally in its operational assets to generate future cash flows that exceed the investments and then free up cash. And that process-- at the end, we hopefully will free up enough cash to be attractive to our investors. So this will combine the relevant cash flows that are in red-- relevant to a particular initiative-- and it's also projected over time. We may have several periods. As we talked about, there may be several future periods of cash flows to do to consider that are projected in the future. So combining those projected and relevant cash flows and capturing the net of those over time in periods 1, 2, 3, et cetera, we get that pot of free cash flow that's created through this particular initiative. And we're trying to make sure that that cash that's freed up is attractive to our investors. And primarily, we're actually really considering our equity investors. Because the decision to take on debt is a separate decision we want to consider in a different way than we consider our investments and initiatives. So a definition here-- the free cash flows are the funds that are available to the investors, specifically the equity investors, after the firm invests its capital and pays taxes on the profits that come from the investments. So to consider how we're going to get to the free cash flows, we want to make sure we're capturing all of the relevant cash flows that are projected over time in our supply chain. So here again is a picture of our supply chain with the financial flows. And so the kinds of cash flows we want to consider over all are the revenues that come in from customers, the cost of goods sold for those revenues, the direct raw materials we pay to suppliers, the direct costs for those as well as direct costs inside of our firm in terms of labor and equipment et cetera that are dedicated to particular goods. We also have general operating expenses that happen across the firm to generate the revenues that we need to consider. The revenues minus all of our relevant expenses will give us another relevant cash flow, and that is the taxes we have to pay on the profits that come out of that. And finally, we also have investments in capital expenditures and the working capital requirements to run our firm. So these are the main categories of the relevant cash flows that we want to consider overall in our supply chain initiatives. And we'll see that several of these come from the income statement. And the bottom ones here are income statement. And the ones up here, the capital expenditures and the working capital, are from our balance sheet. And so in bringing all these different items together in our supply chain initiative, it's going to be helpful to use incremental financial statements to capture all these projected relevant cash flows. And incremental is important, because it's going to be, again, incremental to this particular project with or without. And we're going to look at it over time in a projected way. So let's start by looking at the incremental income statement. And we've seen this before in the earlier segment, the basic aspects of the income statement. And basically, everything on the income statement is going to be relevant except for interest expense, because that's related to that financing decision, which is something we don't want to mix in with our investment analysis. Obviously, we wouldn't want to consider non-operating expenses in our supply chain, and we wouldn't want to consider extraordinary items. But we still want to incorporate income taxes. So in keeping just these most relevant cash flows for our investment decision, we see a slightly simplified income statement. And we see that once we get our EBIT here at the bottom and subtract our income taxes based on that EBIT, we have a new term called NOPAT-- Net Operating Profit After Taxes. And that'll be a useful term in calculating our free cash flows. And another way of defining this is being the EBIT minus the taxes we pay on the EBIT, or 1 minus the tax rate times the EBIT. Now remember, depreciation, we've incorporated it here, but remember, it's not really a cash flow. It's not really relevant cash flow, because cash is not moving. It doesn't satisfy that first cash flow principle. Cash is not moving. We've needed to incorporate it here to get our income taxes correct, but we should take it back out, because it's not a cash flow. So the bottom line-- the relevant cash flows from the NOPAT, this new term we came up with, is our after tax income. And then we've added back in the depreciation that we used to calculate our income taxes correctly, but it's not really a cash flow. Moving on to the balance sheet, again, here's a picture of our supply chain. We've already accounted for revenues, operating expenses, and cost of goods sold as well as taxes on our income statement, and that leaves us with our capital expenditures and our working capital. And so we're going to look at the incremental capital expenditures and working capital from our particular initiative at hand. And for each period in the future projected forward in period t over time, we will calculate the capital expenditures and the net increase in working capital requirements. Combining the income statement and the balance sheet together, again, here's the income statement portion of the NOPAT plus the depreciation amortization. That's a positive cash flow, because it's income coming in. The balance sheet-- these are both stated in terms of cash outflows-- the expenditures that we're making in capital expense as well as the net increase in working capital requirements from our balance sheet. And using the reformulation of NOPAT relative to EBIT here and putting it all together, we see the formula for our free cash flows. Now, this will be calculated over several periods over time, free cash flows over several periods. And so it'll be helpful to program this formula into a spreadsheet and calculate it over the various periods we're going to consider. And we can see here again to get our NOPAT, it's our revenue minus COGS. So we have the signs over here-- minus cogs, minus operating expenses, minus depreciation amortization, then calculating our income tax based on the EBIT, subtracting that out to give us our NOPAT. Adding back in our depreciation, and then subtracting our balance sheet items, our incremental balance sheet items of capital expenditures and the working capital investments needed. The bottom line will give us our free cash flows that are again projected over time over these various periods. So these are the relevant projected cash flows pulled together into the term free cash flow. So to demonstrate this, let's go back to our example of White Nile. This is the online retailer we considered in the previous segment. They're adding a new warehouse to provide better home delivery service. And we've talked about some of the relevant cash flows-- that being obviously the new warehouse and the equipment that goes inside of it. That's the capital expenditure. We hopefully will get more sales from that better service in that region-- it's not going to be all of the revenue in our firm, but the incremental revenue that comes from the warehouse in that region. We're also going to have warehouse labor we talked about, but we may want to generalize this to be more of a warehouse operations. Labor is one part of our warehouse cost, but we may have utilities and other costs of running a warehouse. So we'll make this a more general term of warehouse operations costs. We talked about how we could lower transportation costs by having the warehouse and therefore consolidating loads into larger loads in bound. And we will also to fill the warehouse up, so we're going to have more in inventory, so it's a net increase in working capital. So to flesh out the example, I'm going to provide you some numbers here. For the warehouse, it's $5 million. The incremental revenue is $6 million. The warehouse operations, $400,000. Again, we're having lower transportation costs. We're reducing our operating expenses by $200,000 on transportation, and an incremental investment in working capital of $600,000 for the inventory. Now, there are some additional cash flows we're missing. Remember, we've tried to think about all the financial flows in our supply chain. And you may want to go back, pause for a minute, go back and think about what are the cash flows we might be missing, and then restart the video again. So hopefully, going back and looking at the cash flows in our supply chain and the incremental income statement and balance you may have come up with some additional cash flows. And here's the ones that I'm thinking are going to be relevant here. And that is, obviously we have more revenue, but with that comes cost of goods sold. We didn't account for that formally. We said we have $6 million in revenue, so we have a cost of goods sold. And we'll have to calculate that based on considering what we call gross margin. So gross margin, just to give you a quick definition, is equal to the revenue minus the CGS divided by the revenue. And that should be equal to 25%. Depreciation is another cash flow that we need to incorporate to get our taxes right. And it's a depreciation of this whole $5 million over 10 years. And we'll call it straight line depreciation, so it's the same amount each year over 10 years. We may also want to consider that with a time horizon of three years, we may have salvage value for this particular warehouse. We may not assume we're going to keep it forever. So let's assume we sell it after three years, and we're going to sell it at a book value, which would be the initial investment capital expenditure minus whatever depreciation has accumulated over those three years. And then we have income taxes to consider as well, another relevant cash flow. And we have to have some assumption about what our income tax rate is, and we'll assume it's 30%. So based on these additional relevant cash flows, see if you can think about how to calculate at least some of these items based on the numbers up here and the assumptions we've listed beside each of these, and see if you can come up with some of the numbers we'll need to incorporate in our example. OK. If you've paused the video, I hope you've had a chance to think about that. I'm going to put up the numbers here, and see if you got your calculations correct. So for our gross margin to be 25%, we have to have-- our revenue here is $6 million. And so 25% of that is $1,500,000. So revenue minus our COGS to give us 1,500,000, that means our costs of goods sold would have to be $4.5 million. For depreciation, 10 years straight line, you just take the 5 million divided by 10 to give us 500,000. That's pretty easy math, right? And finally, the salvage value is-- once we've determined our annual depreciation, our depreciation over three years is 1.5 million, so 5 million minus 1.5 million equals 3,500,000. Hopefully, you didn't spend too much time trying to calculate income tax. It's a bit tricky to do that with the numbers here. You're going to have to pull things together a bit. So I'm going to put it as to be calculated, because we're going to do that in our spreadsheet. One other assumption here is that we don't have any inflation. Remember, I mentioned that earlier in an earlier segment. In all these exercises we're not assuming there's any inflation. We'll assume that same amount continues over time. So once we put this in, we take our individual line items that we mentioned before in blue here-- here's the revenue of $6 million. And remember, there's no inflation, so it stays flat over all three years. We get our COGS in there. Notice that our transportation cost is a negative number, because it goes down. And our warehouse operations is a positive number, because that increases our operating expenses. And the net of these two together gives us an increased operating expense of $200,000. Our depreciation shows up here, and so if we take our signs over here, we can calculate this as we go. 6 million minus 4.5 million gives us a $1.5 million gross income each year. Subtracting out our operating expenses of 200,000 then gives us an EBITDA of 1.3 million. Subtracting out our $500,000 of depreciation gives us an EBIT of 800,000, and then that gives us at a 30% tax rate an income tax of 240,000. Subtracting that out, we finally get our NOPAT of $560,000. Notice I got rid of the thousands. All of the numbers here are in thousands of dollars, because it's a lot easier to see the numbers without all the zeros. So our NOPAT is our cash inflow coming in. We have to then add in the depreciation down here. So we add in the 500,000 that was the same as we had up here. So I just add it back in. Then we have our capital expenditures. And we're assuming those happen right away. So those happen in period 0, the $5 million for our new warehouse and equipment. We're also considering in period 0 that we have to invest in our inventory right away, so that's $600,000 of inventory investment, gives us a net increase in working capital investment And there's also at the end of the period-- we're assuming, again, a horizon of three years, so we're going to sell our equipment. Here's the salvage value, and it's a negative 3.5 million, because it's a negative expenditure because we're getting money back. And the same way when we sell off our warehouse-- we're going to sell off the inventory in the warehouse, and so we'll again have a negative net working capital requirement, because we'll get that working capital back at the end of the three years. So we take our NOPAT and make those adjustments, we finally get our free cash flows. And you can do the math here to see that it works out. So you can see how the incremental income statement and the adjustments from the balance sheet pulled together in the free cash flows really help us account for all of the relevant projected cash flows. And that free cash flow is really useful in making investment decisions-- a lot better than having various-- we could have tried to account for all the different line items that we listed initially as relevant cash flows, but those line items become complicated. Because first of all, we could have things that are confounded. So not in this example, but consider you had revenue growth and margin growth at the same time. It's hard to calculate both the revenue increasing as a top line number as well as the margin increasing at the same time. It's easier just to put it into the incremental income statement to confound those rather than keeping them as separate line items. It applies income tax once in an effective way. Otherwise, with line items, we would have to consider the after tax flow of every one of the line items, and it's a bit complicated there. Also, business professionals are really accustomed to reading income statements. So seeing an incremental income statement is something that they're more familiar with. And again, coming back to the beginning of our segment here, the investor value, the equity investors are really caring about the cash that we're freeing up over time. So those free cash flows are really the critical aspects that they're considering as we're making our investment decisions in our supply chain initiatives.

## Working Capital Cash Flows
So we've now covered the majority of this lesson considering the different types of cash flows we'll need to estimate when evaluating a supply chain initiative. We'll spend a little time now at the end thinking about the working capital cash flows, which tend to be the trickiest to calculate. Again, looking at our free cash flow template, we've considered the relevant cash flows that are listed here in the template. And we've considered how we can think about them as being projected over time. And we consolidate them into our free cash flows here at the bottom. Most of the items on the income statement are pretty straightforward. Revenues are accounted for as long as we've applied the cash flow principle. The cash is moving with or without principle that is relevant. These incremental revenues, cost of goods sold, operating expenses are pretty straightforward to calculate. We may have some discussion about whether it fits into COGS or operating expenses, depending on whether it's direct or indirect, but it really doesn't matter for the purposes of calculating our NOPAT at the bottom, because they're both subtracted. The calculation of EBITDA and EBIT are straightforward. Our depreciation is based on the capital expenditures that are relevant. So the depreciation comes in here. We have to adjust for it down below, but it's simply a matter of taking the number up here, n, and making sure-- well, it's actually a negative n-- and making sure we add it back in here at the bottom. So those are all pretty straightforward. Again, the bottom, the capital expenditures, are most likely going to be easily estimated, because they're r investments in long-term assets that are going to be pretty easy to identify. The most challenging part is just determining what are the working capital investments in determining the free cash flows. So let's think about how is working capital considered a cash flow? And let's remind ourselves of the free cash flow formula where working capital comes in. And from earlier in this lesson, what is comprised of a working capital requirement? The requirement is the accounts receivable plus the inventory subtracting out the accounts payable, where the suppliers give us time to pay, and then other aspects of current assets and liabilities, short-term investments, short-term debt, and cash. But the supply chain initiatives will affect primarily this cash-to-cash cycle and not those other cash and short-term investments. So we'll focus on those three aspects. And we're going to consider determining the working capital requirements is based on those three things. We need to then think about the cash flow is the net change. You see down here net change. The net and the delta here means change in this working capital investment required with the working capital requirements from the previous period. So if our previous period is t - 1, and we're going to period t, we have our accounts receivable, our inventory, and our accounts payable. And they're each going to change from t - 1 to t. And we account for all three of those and add them up together to get our net change and working capital. And that number at the end, if it ends up being a positive number that means it's an increase in working capital requirements. It's a cash outflow, but we're subtracting it so that becomes a negative cash flow in our free cash flows here. And a decrease in working capital requirements means that the change in net capital would go down. It would be a negative number, where subtracting a negative number, it becomes a positive cash flow, which is appropriate for our cash inflow. Let's do the simple example here to illustrate this a bit more how that happens over time. So let's consider a firm that's going to launch a new product. It's going to sell for two years and then be discontinued. So the working capital requirements are defined as follows. It starts at the beginning year zero, and there's a ramp up period where by which we'll start making sales. We'll be adding inventory. We'll be starting to have receivables, because we've made sales that we will collect the funds at a later period time. At the same time, we're buying goods from suppliers and paying them at a later period time. So our payables go up. And let's say we continue to increase our sales over the second year, we'll have even more receivables, more inventory. Hopefully, we'll not grow the inventory as much as we do receivables and sales, but by managing our supply chain well. And also, I manage our supply chain well, perhaps, we can extend our payment terms and extend the accounts payable, which is a good thing for working capital investment. And then zeros will ramp down, and by the end of year three will be down to zero again. So how do these working capital requirements turn into cash flows? Let's pull up the bottom part of our template. And let's start by calculating the three components down below starting with a net increase in accounts receivable, which I lost my e there. There we go, accounts receivables. And if you look at the top here, we go from 0 to 100 in the first year. So that's an increase of 100. And from year one to year two, we go, again, up by another 100. So from 100 to 200, that's an increase of 100. And then from year two to three, we go from 200 down to 0. So that's a decrease of 200 for period three for the accounts receivable. So we can calculate the same for inventory and accounts payable. You may want to stop the video for a moment before we reveal that. Let's reveal the numbers for the inventory and accounts payable. Again, the inventory goes up by 125 in the first year. It goes up an additional 50 to an 175 by the year two, and then we recoup that whole at 175 by the end of year three. And the payables also increased by 50, another 75 up to 125. And then we recruit the 125 by the end of year three. So each of the components are calculated, and then we can add them up to determine our net working capital investment. And we then have the signs over here to see how to do that. If we take 100 plus 125 is 225 minus 50 at the bottom gives us 175. And you have to look behind my writing here, but you should be able to calculate 150 minus 75 is 75. And negative 375 plus 125 subtracting a negative gives us a negative 250. We're recouping that working capital at that end. So how does this net working capital investment finally become a cash flow? Well, then we follow our sign here from our formula. In free cash flows, we're subtracting the net working capital investment. So it's a negative 175, and the 75 becomes a negative 75. And our negative, our reduction of 250 reduction of working capital investment becomes a cash inflow of 250. We recoup that capital at the end. So these are our cash flows relative to the new product launch here. We could double check this by going up at the top here calculating the total working capital required. So it's not the net, but actually the total working capital required. And we see that it goes from 0 to 175. So that would be a net outflow of 175 investment to increase up to 175. Our total in then goes from 175 to 250. So that's an additional 75 investment. And at the end, we recouped that 250 to give a positive 250 here. And we can see that those numbers match up with the calculation down there. So it's a way of checking by using the total working capital required over time. The timing of working capital cash flows is also a little trickier compared to the income statement. The income statement, the cash flows accumulate throughout the year and therefore are accounted for at the end of the period, at the end of the year. Whereas working capital cash flows, the cash flow occurs when the change takes place, in terms of the balance sheet transactions. So in the case of inventory, the time when the working capital cash flow would occur is when we are replenishing our stock the next time. So let's say we have 60 days worth of inventory, that means that at the end of the around 60 days if sales go according to our expectations, we will have to have a replenishment. And at that point, we will order-- because if we can make a change in policy to reduce inventory-- we will order a lower amount than 60 days. So 60 days into the year, we will already realize that reduced working capital requirement and therefore have a positive cash flow. So that 60 days comes in very early in the 365 day year. So you can basically account for that in period zero, because it's very close to period zero closer than it is to the end of the year at period one. Similarly, for the change in payment terms of receivables or payables, that happens the next time a payment is made. And also, typically, our payables and receivables are going to be less than 180 days. So that often will happen closer to period zero than period one. So in the case of days of inventory and payables and receivables when their low or less than 180, you can argue to account for those cash flows in period zero. And we'll find out in lesson two that it's actually to our advantage to account for those cash flows earlier than later. Let's close this section on working capital with another larger example considering a typical situation where a company is going through a SKU rationalization process. In this case, the manufacturer Yellow River is considering eliminating one other slow moving products. What are the relevant cash flows? Pulling up our free cash flow template, we go through the list here and say that, well, if we eliminate a product, we're going to have lower revenue. As a result of that, we're going to have lower COGS related to that lower revenue. Operating expenses is not as clear, because we don't know how many products we have. There's no information about that. And it's probably one of many products, and it may not change our warehousing expenses and other operating expenses. So it's not clear we would have an operating expense impact. Regarding depreciation, there's no mention of any kind capital expenditures. We kind of cross that off down below. And therefore, the depreciation is also probably something that's not relevant. The income tax would be affected, because we're going to change our gross income up top. That'll slow down and change our EBIT. So that will also end up going down as well, and it'll effect our NOPAT. But the clear thing we have to be able to calculate is the net change in working capital investment, because we are reducing this product, eliminating product. So these are the relevant cash flows. Let's make some assumptions here to come up some numbers. So to make things easy let's assume that this product represents a sales or revenue of $1,000 a day. So if you have 365 days of the year, you can pretty easily calculate the revenue. The COGS, let's assume there's a gross margin 10%. And remember, the revenue minus the COGS divided by the revenue, that's our gross margin. So basically the COGS is going to be 90% of our revenue. No relevant cash flows for the operating expenses. Let's assume that we have 180 days of inventory, 30 days of payables, and 90 days of receivables. And remember, we have sales of $1,000 a day. So that should pretty straightforward. And the tax rate, you can try to calculate that, or you can just leave that for the free cash template. It's usually easier. If you want to pause the video now, I'll let you do that. You can make your calculations, then we can check them. Trying to make this example easy, 365 days a year, $1,000 a day, that's a reduction in revenue. Remember, we're reducing revenue, because we're eliminating the product. Negative 365,000 impact on revenue, 90% of that is 329,000, no relevant cash flows for operating expenses, and our reduction of inventory, again, the $1,000 a day of sales. So 180 days of inventory is $180,000. We're reducing that. We're also reducing our payables and receivables. And let's calculate our taxes, once we put in the template. And the numbers here are rounded off to the nearest thousand, just to point that out. And again, putting it into the free cash flow template, projecting forward, let's not assume any inflation. So if we put this in the template-- there's one thing we didn't really discuss yet as to whether these cash flows here, the reduction and receivables, inventory and payables, which add up to be a negative 240, because we have negative 270 plus a 30, because we're subtracting out the negative number gives us negative 240, should that happen in period zero or period one? Well, the receivables are 90 days. The payables are 30 days. Those transactions will likely hit the balance sheet earlier in the year, closer to period zero. Inventory is right in the middle, 180 days. So you could argue either way. But let's, for argument's sake, assume it all happens in period zero. We've plugged in our lower sales and our lower COGS as a result, reduce our income, our gross income by 37,000. That'll reduce our income tax burden as well. And that's a relevant cash flow even if we're not paying taxes. Maybe we're our profitable this year. But we can still account for this negative, the negative cash flow of the taxes, even if we're not paying taxes this year, because we can carry that loss forward and realize that reduction in taxes in the future. So we'll still count that negative, that reduction in income taxes to have a net impact of 26,000 hours less NOPAT. So we've got a trade-off here. By eliminating, Yellow River has freed up 240,000 in capital upfront, but at a cost of 26,000 hours in cash and loss cash flows in the future. And the question will be, is this a good initiative or not? And this is where we need to move on to lesson two where we will calculate the figures of merit an acceptance criterion to determine if this is a good initiative. But we've completed now the really difficult part of our cash flow analysis, and that is determining the relevant cash flows.

## Key Points
Let's take a moment to review some of the key points from this lesson. So the lesson talked a lot about cash flows, different types of cash flows, different timing of cash flows, different magnitudes of cash flows, and hopefully you're beginning to understand why it's important to be able to describe your supply chain designs in terms of cash flows. And the main reason is because the evaluation of any initiative we have in our supply chain is going to be based on the future free cash flows it creates. And this is for internal budgeting, and to get money for investments to undertake our initiatives. It's also important for communicating to our investors the value we're creating for them, so no matter which KPIs you're using to describe your supply chain performance, you should also be able to boil it down to future free cash flows. One of the difficult steps in doing this is determining which of the cash flows are relevant for our particular supply chain initiative, and we have fortunately two principles to use in guiding that. And the first is that cash must flow-- cash has to move, money has to move, in order for it to be relevant. And two, that it must be incremental regarding our project. With our initiative or without our initiative, we should be able to determine which of the incremental cash flows between those two worlds, with and without. We then will need to be able to consolidate those future cash flows that are relevant into free cash flows. And again, this is because the free cash flows are the basis for evaluation for our investors, for the investor value creation, and also business professionals are used to looking at these incremental income statements and balance sheet numbers, but also the free cash flow template we have effectively confounds or combines the various different line items in terms of magnitude and timing. So it gives us a structure to pull everything together. It's also important not to forget the balance sheet. Where really it's a lot easier to think about the income statement and the impact of our supply chain on revenues and expenses, but the balance sheet is critical because capital expenditures, while infrequent, are high magnitude, and because the working capital is almost always a part of our supply chain design, especially the inventory part, but also the payment terms of payables and receivables can be affected. And then being able to turn the net changes in that working capital requirement into cash flows is a bit tricky, but it can make or break our design initiative. And finally, this lesson is not meant to make you an expert in finance or accounting, but it enables you to start the discussions and engage with your colleagues in accounting and finance to make sure your numbers are correct. But the important thing is that you are defining and initiating the process to define the basis for the investment decisions and the budgeting decisions that are being made inside the firm. So we've finished with lesson one, this first step in investment evaluation. Lesson two will focus on these next steps of turning those relevant free cash flows into a figure of merit and comparing it with the criterion to make a decision. So in a nutshell, we've been able to take our supply chain designs, with both our physical and our financial flows, and take those financial flows and turn them into cash flows-- here at the bottom line is free cash flows. And the next lesson helps us turn those cash flows into decisions. All right, well, as always with these lessons, practice problems are really the best way to learn this and especially to understand the cash flows, which ones are relevant. Practice problems will really help you think through that. Use the discussion for questions, comments and suggestions, and good luck counting your cash flows in these exercises and in your professional practice. I hope that your cash flows stack up higher than the coins in this picture.
