TITLE: Problem Set 3

8.03SC Physics III: Vibrations and Waves
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Fall 2016
Homework 3


Problem 3.1 (20 pts)

Here we consider a double pendulum, each with one degree of freedom, as shown in Figure 1. Mass M1 is connected by a massless rigid rod of length L to a fixed origin. Its x-coordinate is X1 and it makes an angle θ1 with respect to the vertical (y-axis). Mass M2 is connected by a massless rigid rod of length L to mass M1. Its x-coordinate is X2 and it makes an angle θ2 with respect to the vertical direction.
You may assume that the 'hinges' at the origin and on mass M1 are frictionless. Gravity points downward in the y-direction. You may assume that all oscillations are small, i.e., that θ1 and θ2 are small and terms of order O(θ^2) are negligible.

[Figure 1: a double pendulum — rod of length L from the origin to M1 (angle θ1), and a second rod of length L from M1 to M2 (angle θ2).]

(a) Write down the equations of motion for the two oscillating masses.
(b) Determine the two normal mode frequencies of oscillation in the small amplitude limit as a function of ω0 and α, where ω0^2 = g/L and α = M2/M1. (You don't have to solve the corresponding amplitude ratios.)
(c) What are the two normal mode frequencies if α → ∞? Do your results make sense?
(d) What are the two normal mode frequencies if α → 0? Do your results make sense?


Problem 3.2 (20 pts)

Consider two identical LC circuits as shown in Figure 2. The two inductors are brought close together such that their mutual inductance M results in a coupling between the currents flowing in the two circuits.

[Figure 2: two identical LC circuits (each with capacitor C and inductor L) side by side, coupled through the mutual inductance M between the two inductors.]

(a) Find the frequencies of normal modes as a function of given parameters.
(b) What current patterns correspond to these normal modes? Could you use symmetry arguments to discover these modes?


Problem 3.3 (20 pts)

Consider three identical masses constrained to move on a frictionless circle. The masses are connected with identical springs each with spring constant k (see Figure 3). The circle is large such that you can ignore any effects related to the curvature. The circle is horizontal such that gravity can be ignored.

[Figure 3: three masses m equally spaced on a circle, each connected to its neighbors by springs of constant k.]

(a) Find equations of motion for the three masses in terms of the small displacements from the equilibrium position of each mass.
(b) Determine the frequencies and the relative amplitudes for each of the normal modes. Make a simple sketch of the motion of the masses for each of the normal modes. How many different frequencies are there in this system?
(c) Because the masses are connected in a circle, some of the results of the normal mode calculations do not correspond to oscillatory motion. Explain why.


Problem 3.4 (20 pts)

Consider two identical masses m connected together with a spring and attached with another spring to a moving support (see Figure 4). The support is oscillating vertically and its position is given by h(t) = A·cos(ωt). The Hooke constant of the two identical springs is k. Ignore effects of damping.

[Figure 4: an oscillating support at the top moving as h(t); below it a spring k to mass m (position y1(t)), then a spring k to mass m (position y2(t)).]

(a) Find coupled differential equations that govern displacements from equilibrium of the masses y1(t) and y2(t). Express your results in terms of ω0^2 = k/m. Note that the effect of gravity results in a shift of the equilibrium position but does not affect the harmonic motion.
(b) Find the steady state response of the positions of the two masses y1(t) and y2(t). Make a careful sketch of the amplitude as a function of the driving frequency ω for each of the masses.
(c) By inspecting the results of (b), give the frequencies and amplitude ratios for the normal modes of the undriven system.


Problem 3.5 (20 pts)

Two identical beads, each of mass m, are equally spaced along a massless string of length 3a (see Figure 5). Consider the system to be on a frictionless horizontal surface. Initially both ends of the string are fixed (Δ = 0). Assume that the string is under tension T at all times. Beads can execute small amplitude oscillations perpendicular to the string (displacements are exaggerated in the figure).

[Figure 5: two beads m on a string of length 3a, divided into three segments of length a; left end fixed to a wall, right end attached to a support that can be driven as Y(t) = Δ·cos(ω_d·t).]

(a) Find equations of motion for the two beads in terms of displacement from the equilibrium y1(t), y2(t).
(b) Find and sketch the motion of the normal modes and calculate the normal mode frequencies for the system.

Assume now that the rightmost attachment point undergoes harmonic oscillation y(t) = Δ·cos(ω_d·t).

(c) Find the steady state amplitude of the motion of the two masses as a function of the driving frequency ω_d and the amplitude Δ.
