TITLE: City Case Study Investigation

CITY CASE STUDY INVESTIGATION

FINAL due date: August 4 by 10:00am GMT (6:00am EDT).

This assignment is required for Certificate learners, but all learners are encouraged to complete the City Case Study Investigations.

This assignment is required for Certificate learners, but all learners are encouraged to complete the City Case Study Investigations. This assignment will be reviewed by course instructors for content, and learners will be expected to submit a self-assessment for grading.

Assignment Overview
This week you will complete your Climate Action Plan Prospectus. Using your research from last week, and what you have learned from fellow learners in the Discussion, you will write final versions of your 2-3 components of a Climate Action Plan, integrating the policy recommendations you have researched, as you discuss how your Climate Action Plan components address the climate and equity challenges idenitifed in your city. Consider the actors that need to be involved in decision-making processes, and how your policy recommendations make space for their contributions.

Assignment Completion Process
You will complete this assignment in the following Graded Response, however your grade will be a self-assessment exercise. Follow the instructions in the ORA for how to complete a Self-Assessment. Following completion of your Prospectus, use the Discussion Panel to summarize and share the key features of your Prospectus with fellow learners. Use the discussion to reflect on how this Case Study Investigation has helped you understand climate action in cities, and how it might support your future work or studies.

See the examples of a Final Climate Action Plan Prospectus below for reference.


Final Climate Action Plan Prospectus Examples

Final Climate Action Plan Prospectus Examples

The examples below are of Final Climate Action Plan Prospectus documents for a particular city of study. Each learner contributed their own 2-3 Components to the larger group project. For your own Week 12 assignment, you will ONLY WRITE FINAL VERSIONS OF YOUR 2-3 COMPONENTS. YOU WILL NOT COMBINE THESE WITH OTHER LEARNER'S WORK, and YOU DO NOT HAVE TO SUBMIT MORE THAN YOUR 2-3 COMPONENTS . Once you have written your final Components, you will submit these to the Graded Response and complete a Self-Assessment.

1. Tess Buchanan's Team Final Climate Action Plan Prospectus
2. Janka Hamori's Final Climate Action Plan Prospectus
3. Luis Garcia's Final Climate Action Plan Prospectus
