TITLE: City Case Study Investigation

CITY CASE STUDY INVESTIGATION

Recommended due date: July 28 by 10:00am GMT (6:00am EDT). Final due date: August 4 by 10:00am GMT (6:00am EDT).

This assignment is required for Certificate learners, but all learners are encouraged to complete the City Case Study Investigations.

This assignment will be reviewed by the course instructors for content, but will not include direct instructor feedback.

Assignment Overview
Create a DRAFT of 2 Climate Action Plan components for your case study city, building on your SWOT Analysis and findings about barriers to climate action. Each component should be 200-300 words. You'll share your research in the forum discussion and submit the final prospectus in Week 12.

When developing your policy recommendations, focus on Environmental Justice implications, vulnerabilities and environmental stressors in your city, and overlaps between different Climate Action Plan components.

Component Structure
For each of your 2 components, include the following sections:

COMPONENT [1 or 2]: [Policy Name]
1. Context – Current situation and key challenge
2. Opportunity – Specific opportunity for action
3. Policy Recommendation – 200-300 words (your complete component)
4. EJ Implications – Impact on vulnerable communities and equity measures
5. Interactions – How this supports other climate actions and potential synergies

Assignment Completion Process
Review the examples of a Draft Climate Action Plan Prospectus below for reference and before completing this worksheet. Use your completed components to make a post in the Discussion Panel to refine your approach before the final submission.


Climate Action Plan Prospectus - Examples

Climate Action Plan Prospectus

Refer to the following examples of DRAFT Climate Action Plan Prospectus assignments, where learners wrote up 2-3 Climate Action Plan Components relating to their city of study. Pay attention to the recommendations that learners have made in their writings.

For your own DRAFT Climate Action Plan Prospectus for Week 11, you will write 2-3 Components of a Climate Action Plan, each 200-300 words. You will not share this writing directly this week. Instead, you will utilize the Discussion Panel to discuss your drafts with fellow learners, and learn from each other about the process of developing a Climate Action Plan Prospectus. Your final versions of your Prospectus (Week 12) will be submitted for a graded response.

1. Tess Buchanan's DRAFT Climate Action Plan Prospectus
2. Janka Hamori's DRAFT Climate Action Plan Prospectus
3. Luis Garcia's DRAFT Climate Action Plan Prospectus
