JANELLE KNOX-HAYES: Hello.
My name is Janelle Knox-Hayes.
I'm an Associate Professor in the Department of Urban Studies
and Planning.
And the title of this talk is the Equitable Resilience
Framework.
Climate change will rapidly disrupt
the fundamental conditions that human societies depend on
to thrive in profoundly unequal ways.
While some communities will have the resources to avoid or adapt
to the worst impacts of climate change,
others will find their homes becoming uninhabitable,
their livelihoods vanishing, and their health
and security threatened by a changing climate.
Climate policy needs to change to support rapid and equitable
adaptations in the built environment
and socioeconomic structures of society.
It is an immense challenge that current policy toolkits are not
prepared for, but it's also an opportunity
to use investments in our most vulnerable and underserved
communities, including Indigenous populations,
and take these investments and make levers for broader
long-term transformations.
This is what the equitable resilience
framework attempts to do.
It's a comprehensive toolkit aimed
at transforming policy making towards community-led planning,
decision making, and communication.
The outcomes of adaptation planning
processes that utilize the ERF will
be more effective at increasing climate resilience,
more equitable in addressing basic human needs,
and will support long-term structural change.
This is what the equitable resilience framework
looks like in a diagram format.
It's built around the three pillars of justice, equity,
and efficacy.
The first pillar combines different justices, thinking
across epistemic distributional community
and procedural justice, and achieves a human capabilities
approach.
So any planning process begins from the standpoint
of establishing the human capabilities that communities
desire to preserve, or to achieve.
And these are defined by the communities themselves.
The second pillar is efficacy.
And this is how we seek to transform the nature
of planning and design.
It's really taking the idea of cost benefit analysis, which
encodes a range of different structural inequalities,
because it focuses primarily on property price,
and instead transitions to a trade-off analysis.
So we've taken the standard procedure of trade-off analysis
that thinks about different criteria,
building consensus, analyzing power dynamics,
thinking about transformations and interventions
across a range of impacts and added several other techniques
to it, including a racial impact assessment
and environmental impact assessment,
and then thinking about the ways in which we can generate
more systematic data analysis for communities using
visualizations and disaggregating data
from the mean so that communities understand
not just what's going to happen for the median household,
but what's going to happen on the extreme ends
of an intervention.
And then finally with the trade-off analysis,
we seek to layer this in time so that communities
aren't thinking about one-off interventions.
Let's raise, for example HVAC systems.
But instead, they're thinking about how
a series of interventions can lead to a transformation,
HVAC systems lead to slowly perhaps moving infrastructure
back, maybe ultimately changing the social or ecological
conditions in the long term that are supporting a community so
that the sea level rise they might be experiencing becomes
more viable to adapt to over a 30 year time frame.
The third pillar is equity.
And equity critically tries to build knowledge convergence
across the stakeholders that need to be
involved in a planning process.
This is leveling the playing field
so that different forms of knowledge are brought together.
We really mean for this diagram to be iterative.
Knowledge convergence wraps the entire process.
So inherent in knowledge convergence
are several key principles.
The first is the idea of enhancing scientific impact
through different forms of narrative, media,
and performance.
For many communities, the idea of climate metrics,
or climate forecasting built around terms like two degrees
Celsius, or 450 parts per million
atmospheric concentration of CO2 doesn't have much meaning.
And so it's important to translate the science,
especially as we begin to localize
the understanding of scientific impacts
so that communities really understand
what this is going to mean and how it's going to translate
into a range of specific impacts they will experience,
and decisions that they have to make
about their infrastructure, their socioeconomic systems,
and ultimately their livelihoods.
And then second, inherent in this
is also the idea that scientific assessment has been profoundly
unequal and it has not sufficiently
integrated community knowledge.
This is both local knowledge of how ecosystems operate,
how human systems are in interaction
with those ecosystems, and then also
traditional ecological knowledge that tribal communities bring.
We can enhance climate science if we find ways
through dialogue and other techniques
and weaving to bring those knowledge systems together.
And then finally, it's the idea of transforming consultation,
which is often a top-down, state or developer-directed activity
to one that begins from the standpoint of the communities
and the human capabilities they wish to preserve or achieve.
And so they define not just where or how consultation
happens, but the actual framework of consultation.
What are the questions that are asked?
What are the criteria that are evaluated?
And this leads, ultimately, to the fourth box
in the top right of this diagram, which
is thinking about defining new criteria of well-being,
moving away from measures like cost of impact, property
damage, or even impacts on GDP, to thinking
about different measures of well-being,
some that are already established
and some that need to be established such
that we can measure this human capabilities
approach over time.