GINA ZIERVOGEL: I'm Gina Ziervogel.
I'm an associate professor at the Department of Environmental
and Geographical Science at the University of Cape Town.
And I'd like to talk about the case of the Cape Town drought
as an example of urban adaptation
to climate change and thinking about social justice.
So in 2017, the dam levels in Cape Town
were getting low and reservoir levels.
And 95% of Cape Town's water comes from around six big dams
on the outskirts of the city.
So this was concerning.
And the city put measures in place to try and respond.
So in order to reduce demand, they put in place restrictions.
They increased water tariffs.
But one of the challenges was there
had been quite an effective water reduction water
efficiency campaign in previous years.
But significant efforts were made to reduce water further.
They also tried to increase supply
and so looked at temporary desalination plants
and managed to procure those relatively quickly
and got a few of those up and running after six months
or more.
They also looked at increasing the use of groundwater,
boreholes, and looked at re-use.
But what's also useful to think about is the social context
and what it meant for people in the city.
And so we have many people living in informal settlements
in Cape Town.
But actually, when they looked at the numbers, only about 4%
of the water in the city was used by people
living in informal settlements.
So there were some people who like
to complain that people in informal settlements
weren't adhering to the restrictions.
But really, these people were using very little.
One of the challenges is that many people were using these--
in the low-income areas was using water
to support their livelihoods.
So they might have a small vegetable garden,
or they might have an informal car washing business.
And so these restrictions really hit some of these households
hard.
The other challenge was the increase in tariffs.
As the price for water increase-- so
those people who have very little money available
really felt the effect of this increase in prices.
So that was really hard for them as well.
So that's another issue around equity and justice
that needed to be carefully considered.
What we have in South Africa often
is there might be some people living in a small house.
And then what happens is in the backyard,
there'll be a shack living there,
and some people paying rent.
And so on one property, there might be eight or 10 people
living there.
So the amount of water allocated for the month might be fine.
When we got down at the height of the drought,
we were expected to only use 50 liters per person.
But if you've got 10 people living on a site
and it's only counted as an average of having four people,
then it really becomes impossible to live
with that amount of water.
And so you're paying high tariffs.
One of the other interesting things we saw
is that before the drought, many of the lower income households
had water management devices installed.
And so these were essentially devices to manage the water
flow to a household.
And if a household signed up to this water management device,
their previous debt would be canceled.
So many people had high debt because they
hadn't paid water bills mainly because there were leaks.
And so they'd be in high water usage.
And they really couldn't afford those bills.
So if they put a device in, then their debt would be cleared.
So there are challenges around this.
And it's 350 liters a day per household, which is often not
enough for those households.
But it was part of the program.
What happened during the drought is that high water
users in high-income areas, if they were not
adhering to the restrictions and went way
above the restrictions, they also
got water management devices put in.
For me, this was a good thing because it
showed that the city was taking this seriously.
It didn't matter if you could pay for water.
They were asking every household to limit their water.
So these devices were put in that household.
They had to pay for the device themselves.
And that of course, caused some uproar among some people.
But I saw that as quite a fair response to the drought.
So some of these responses impacted low-income households
more.
Many of the responses impacted people's livelihoods.
And it really showed how interconnected
all these aspects are and that we need to think very carefully
about how we adapt and how we think
about the different people within the city and the impacts
that it might have and some of the unintended consequences
that often weren't thought through,
which is really hard in a crisis where a city government is
trying to respond, trying to manage it.
But sometimes, there wasn't enough
engagement with different groups to understand
what the implications of this could be.