JANELLE KNOX-HAYES: Hello, I'm Janelle Knox-Hayes.
I'm an associate professor in the Department of Urban Studies
and Planning at MIT.
And the topic of this presentation
is Justice and Co-design for Wind Energy Infrastructure.
There are a number of opportunities and challenges
for offshore wind.
This research is derived from a paper recently published
in Joule, a co-design framework for wind energy integrated
with storage that was published with a number
of esteemed colleagues, including Michael Aziz, Eric
Loth, Perry Li, Lucy Pao, Denise Gayme, Sonya Smith, Jessica
Smith.
And the idea of the paper is to think
about the opportunities of co-generating wind
with communities.
So US electricity production supplied by wind
is projected to increase from 8% in 2020 to 20% by 2030
and 35% by 2050.
That amounts to a growth of 122 gigawatts in 2020
to over 460 gigawatts in 2050.
New England will need 30 to 45 gigawatts
alone of offshore wind to reach its climate goals by 2050
because land is not available to produce this energy.
Outside of the US, the wind energy infrastructure offshore
is critically important to climate impacted regions
and states like the Maldives.
One of the challenges that's been experienced
with offshore wind is that a number of projects
have been sited in the New England area.
You can see this map here planned, projected,
and some projects in development.
And a number of projects have been
planned but then stopped short of development
because communities oppose these projects.
So as this article shows, bids for the next offshore wind
projects in Massachusetts must have a greater focus on equity
and an understanding of why communities, even communities
that are very favorable to climate objectives
or to energy efficiency, reject wind when
it's sited in their backyards.
There are a number of social dimensions of wind projects
that have to be considered, as well as ecological impacts.
Communities tend to be concerned about the impacts
on fisheries, on birds, the sound
impacts that turbines might have if they're
too close to residential structures, the site impacts.
And this is particularly important
for tribal communities if the site impacts
might affect their ability to see the sunrise.
There's also a concern and consideration
in industrial relationships and how offshore wind projects will
ultimately benefit communities.
And then finally, there is some concern
within communities about the economic opportunities.
Wind is more likely to be successful
if it generates economic local opportunities in terms
of building the turbines, operating the turbines,
and maintaining them, creating jobs for the local workforce.
And so as you can see in these graphics,
there are already a number of studies and research
being conducted on how to overcome these challenges
to win projects.
But the key is working with communities
to understand what they're concerned about,
what their values are, and which of these options
is likely to be most successful.
So some critical considerations in achieving wind success.
The first is that it's important to understand
sociotechnical systems rather than technological products.
How do you build the nascent economic, social, technical
support needed to ensure success in a wind project?
This is very different from just thinking about what
are the technical requirements.
How do we achieve efficiency of supply
and reduce the cost of wind energy?
And then what are the community benefits?
How is the community going to benefit, both in the short term
as well as in the long term, from the generation of the wind
energy system.
The second important point is to have elevate community
values, norms, aspirations into the system
and to create platforms of knowledge exchange.
What this is really seeking to do
is push the technical boundaries of the system.
And this is where you get to the idea of co-design.
Often, we think of the engineering criteria of a wind
system as set by the physical conditions in which
the turbines have to operate.
And with co-design, you can get to the idea of instead
of just having technical criteria of how much energy
is produced, at what cost, you can introduce other criteria.
How does the system impact fisheries?
Can the turbines be redesigned so
that they are less harmful on local flora and fauna?
So with the STEP co-design process, what we're proposing
is to build on an already existing concept of integrating
and co-optimizing the disparate components of wind power
energy, including energy storage and other aspects
of the electrical grid to achieve minimum cost of energy,
and expanding this concept to include social perspectives
to engage the diverse stakeholders in problem
definition, technology planning, and focusing
the specifics of the technology on local needs.
This allows stakeholders to directly
assess the technological parameters of a system
and to assess the trade-offs of different designs
to better meet the specific regional needs.
And for some communities, it may be
as simple as looking at the existing technologies that
are available around wind generation and storage
and deciding which parameters best optimize their needs.
It could even get to the extent, though,
where communities think about designing
energy systems choosing from different kinds
of technologies, and finally, maybe even
working with engineers to redesign
the technological products themselves.
Redesigning the structure of a turbine
so that it not only generates power from wind,
but could do other things, perhaps provide benefits
to local fisheries or even interacting
with other kinds of wind systems or energy systems,
rather, like hydrological systems or even solar systems.
The STEP co-design process begins
with stakeholder engagement and buy-in
across the electric organization,
systems operators, regulators, scientists,
and the general public.
So a key is bringing these stakeholders together
and starting the planning of a project with dialogue
and consensus building amongst this diverse group
of stakeholders.
The second is to think about the systems
level design and integration, which
is how we develop fundamental sociotechnical knowledge,
focusing on how low-cost, community friendly wind
energy can be supplied on demand, but built in dialogue
and designed with local communities
and assessing their values and needs.
How can it avoid site impacts?
How can it avoid fisheries, or possibly even do other things,
like generate water desalination or generate
benefits for local fisheries?
And then finally, large scale rollout,
which combines the industry and policymakers together
with designers to scale solution and policy support.
And this means thinking beyond the idea of a wind energy
system in isolation and thinking about how
different systems trialed and piloted with communities
can be scaled up into a more integrated focus.
For example, how is energy produced for the next 30 years
for all of New England?
So this is a graphic that shows the ways in which
this co-design process can lead to sociotechnical convergence
and the translation of a wind power technology
into a wind power sociotechnical system.
On the left, you see the idea of contextualization.
And this is where you bring together
engineers, communities, scientists,
and social scientists, ecologists, planners,
developers, unions to think about the energy system
and how it should operate within the community
and to begin to design across the different criteria,
existing technology, optimizing technology, and then
co-designing technology.
And on the right, you see the idea of generalization.
And this is where you have the realization of the technology
and its scale up, working with policymakers, engineers,
economists, social scientists, industry members,
and stakeholder groups to think about the lessons learned
from different pilot projects and how
to scale these for better market deployment
and achievement of larger regional or national goals.
So from the local to the global, the co-design
has several key elements.
Within contextualization, there's
a recognition of the need to embed the sociotechnical system
by considering the needs of communities and the ecosystem
co-benefits that wind energy and other technology
systems should generate.
There's also a consideration of the boundaries and parameters
of technology engineering and how these can be transformed
and co-opted through collaboration
and co-design with communities.
On the generalization front, there's
a need to advance convergence of larger geographical scales
by considering the full manufacturing supply
chain and infrastructure interactions
as well as the economics, policy,
and ecosystems of integrated wind storage technologies.
And ultimately, this could be extended
to think about renewable technology
systems more holistically, not just as technological products,
but also as sociopolitical cultural systems that
can be better integrated into the communities they serve.