JANELLE KNOX-HAYES: Hello my name is Janelle Knox-Hayes.
I'm an associate professor in the Department of Urban Studies
and Planning.
And this video is about the ways in which
the equitable resilience framework could
be applied to different cities.
Boston is emblematic of cities around the world in that it
is a coastal city vulnerable to climate change, particularly
sea level rise, with a rapidly developing port district.
So this case considers Boston's Seaport District.

The Boston Seaport District is a 100 acre, low lying,
post-industrial site just outside of downtown Boston.
The site is built on landfill.
It has a number of historic uses,
including for fishing, piers, industrial activities,
and eventually for parking lots.
By the late '80s, the Seaport District was very dilapidated,
and the city sought to revitalize it
with a new development plan.
This image also shows that Boston is a coastal low lying
city.
And you can see it's built right on top of the water.
The Boston's Seaport District was originally
planned in the 1990s as a mixed use
neighborhood for families with parks
and other public amenities.
But the district was rechristened as the Innovation
District in 2010 as the development interest overtook
other interests for public good.
Initially, the city had several required benefits.
The district should have $9.5 million in housing support.
It should provide $1.8 million in job training,
and 10% of the development should have been
on site affordable housing.
There were also several intrinsic benefits
that were to be included in the plan,
including 1700 construction jobs and $15 to $20 million
in new tax revenues.
And then there were a range of benefits
that were negotiated between city
officials and the developers, including
263,000 square feet of public parks,
107,000 square feet of civic and cultural entertainment spaces,
public access and recreation for the entire city
and neighborhoods, neighbors of the district,
and then water activation and transportation.
The Seaport District has since evolved into an elite tech
and life science hub, with luxury apartments offices
and restaurants, and now has the highest median household
income in all of Boston, and is predominantly white.
One study showed that there are only 3% Black residents
within the neighborhood, exacerbating
longstanding issues of segregation in the city.
This ad is for a two bedroom apartment
that's being sold within the Seaport District
at $3.4 million, for example.
Additionally and critically, the Seaport District
is being built on land that under climate projections
will be underwater by end of century.
Developers and regulators know that the Seaport District
will be underwater.
They simply assume that either they
will acquire their return on investment
before this becomes a problem or that the challenge will have
to be addressed by government intervention
because of the value of the property they are creating.
The equitable resilience framework,
as you can see in this table, can
propose a range of transformations
across the economic, social, cultural, environmental, and
then eventually interdependence of human and natural systems.
With respect to the economic, thinking about shelter,
economic growth in the Seaport District via $200 million
in property tax breaks and other financial incentives
has contributed to affordable housing shortages and spiraling
rent increases.
Seaport development is built largely offsite,
increasing economic homogenization.
The intervention with the ERF would suggest
potential transformations.
Higher prices are offset by increases in affordable housing
subsidization and protections resulting
in increased purchasing power for the most vulnerable groups
to afford resilient units.
Here it's also critical to remember
that the neighbors of the Seaport District,
communities like Roxbury or Dorchester,
are impacted by the development of the seaport
because any kind of resilient strategies or protections
will weigh the value of property in the Seaport District
relative to the surrounding neighborhoods.
So with respect to economic diversity
and professional opportunities, the nature
of job growth in specific areas in the Seaport District,
including finance consulting, did not
address racial disparities.
There's limited access of different racial groups
to these financial service industries.
Additionally, the companies that were used and continue
to be used to build the Seaport District are predominantly
white owned.
The ERF would suggest that resilience planning focus
instead on improving economic and social diversity in job
growth, including through racially diverse hiring,
increased use of union labor and racial equity in unions
in their decision making, cities create
subsidies to diversify business opportunities
and residential access.
With respect to the social, longevity is a consideration.
Economic growth currently is highly unequal among community,
geographic, and racial dimensions,
which is exacerbating health disparities.
The ERF could propose more inclusive growth
along racial lines and better distribute the social services
with connections between neighborhoods,
fostering more equitable health outcomes.
Along social political engagement and sovereignty,
the Seaport District currently has high level planning and key
decisions being made by the mayor and developers.
Engagement and decision making strategies
such as participatory trade off analysis, community
led planning, and community land trusts
could increase equitable engagement and sovereignty.
With respect to culture, thinking
about senses, imagination, and thought,
currently cultural institutions are built in the Seaport.
But there's a lack of free civic institutions like libraries
and public programming for diverse communities.
Amenities are negotiated by the city
without a fully transparent public decision making process.
The ERF would recommend cultural investment
emphasizing diversity in art, education, entertainment,
and recreation.
Public engagement and cultural planning
is nurtured through tools like collective mapping
and storytelling.
Business incentives could aim at enhancing human capabilities
instead of increasing growth as a whole.
With respect to the culture of innovation,
innovation is concentrated in a few sites around metro Boston,
with a focus primarily on high tech and biomedical industries.
Innovation and flexible adaptation
are not formally incorporated into resilience planning
models.
Innovation is defined more holistically through the ERF,
creating economic opportunities across neighborhoods
and industries.
Resilience and adaptation become a testbed for innovations
in nature based and hybrid flood protection systems incorporated
into architecture and design that embrace and challenge
sea level rise and a dynamic coast.
Climate challenges generate new growth industries
such as offshore wind and tidal energy, ecosystem
and aquaculture.
From the environment standpoint, especially considering safety
from environmental hazards, currently climate change
poses serious risks to private property communities
and public infrastructure.
Development takes place in high risk areas
in spite of a lack of firm plans for protection.
The challenges are largely addressed independently,
project by project.
The ERF would suggest investments
needed to protect the Seaport District that are designed
to benefit rather than burden socially vulnerable
neighborhoods.
Interventions also have to be systematic and coordinated
across neighborhoods, including Dorchester and Roxbury
and cities with public and private investment,
because the investment, particularly
from the private from the public sphere is shared.
And then in the environmental domain,
particularly considering socioecological
interdependence, the Seaport development
has created several new parks, but many are privately owned.
And surveys indicate that BIPOC residents find the water--
I'm going to reread that site.
the Seaport development has created several new parks
but these are mostly privately owned.
Surveys indicate that Black, Indigenous,
and people of color residents find the waterfront
exclusionary.
A cleaner harbor has helped to create better coastal habitat
in the area, but there is little coordination
for resilience across neighborhoods and cities.
Plans for undeveloped parcels emphasize
new development rather than coastal restoration
and parkland.
Planning should focus on public ownership models for open space
and the needs of diverse constituencies.
It should explore alternative uses
of remaining undeveloped seaport coastal areas,
including transformation into recreation spaces or wetlands
that can provide protection, both for the district
and its neighbors.
The Seaport District needs a more considered plan
for protecting the existing built environment
while addressing systemic inequities and vulnerabilities.
It should limit development in high risk areas,
accepting planned sea level rise,
rather than protecting or transitioning infrastructure,
and in this way seek to shore up social, economic,
and ecological resilience.
And finally, the ERF also suggests the consideration
of building interventions across deeper timescales,
from the contract, through the civilizational,
into the ecological, such that both the resilience
and the community interventions acknowledge different levels
of community, moving beyond just the physical aggregate
population to thinking about how to sustain
the social, the economic, the cultural heritage,
and the function of a community with its built
and natural environment.
And then to think about the transition of resilience
from critical infrastructure into the consideration
of social infrastructure, economic infrastructure,
the maintenance of cultural heritage,
and the creation of systems and lifeways
that establish better interdependence
between human and natural systems.