
PROFESSOR: New York City is and will always
be a great city of the world.
It is one of the leaders worldwide
in climate-change preparedness as well as reduction
in greenhouse-gas emissions.
On October 29, 2012, Superstorm Sandy,
a rare high-magnitude hurricane, hit New York City's Southern
Coast during high tide.
Disaster preparedness, evacuation plans, and policies
were in place in New York City at the time of Superstorm
Sandy, but they were limited.
New York City, NYC for short, consists
of a 520-mile coastline that borders the Atlantic
Ocean, rivers, bays, tidal straits, inlets, wetlands,
and a harbor.
Much of the coast is low lying, creating a vulnerability
to coastal storms, erosion, and flooding.
New York City occupies 305 square miles
with population density varying significantly
across the city in its five boroughs.
There are over 8.4 million residences,
but commuters, tourists, and other visitors
boost the amount of people to approximately 9 million people
on an average day.
It's also important to note that there
is a multi-ethnic nature of many of the city's communities.
New York City's boroughs, or municipalities,
include Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, Bronx,
and Staten Island.
Each borough and neighborhood's socioeconomic and spatial
characteristics create a unique set
of risks and exposure factors.
Age, disability, chronic health conditions, income,
and language barriers can increase vulnerability
to certain hazards.
Demographic groups with the highest vulnerability
include children, seniors, people with disabilities,
non-English-speaking residents, low-income individuals,
and social-isolated individuals.
NYC is embedded into a metro region
with a population of roughly 22 million people
and is heavily dependent on complex, interdependent,
critical systems, such as energy, telecommunications,
transportation, water, and wastewater.
NYC has approximately 1 million buildings
and over 2,000 bridges.
Many of these structures are aging
and require continued extensive maintenance, as well as
safety monitoring.
On October 29, 2012, Superstorm Sandy
made landfall near Atlantic City, New Jersey.
Superstorm Sandy was a rare, high-magnitude post-tropical
cyclone that impacted New York City's Southern
Coast during high tide.
At its greatest extent, the storm's wind field
measured about 1,000 miles in diameter,
making it the largest Atlantic hurricane on record.
The storm surge in the battery reached 9.4 feet high,
and wind gusts reached up to 73 miles an hour.
High wind speeds and an atypical storm track
pushed large amounts of ocean water north and west
of the storm center over multiple tidal cycles,
water funnels in a counterclockwise circulation
into New York City Bight, and then inland through estuaries
and up the Hudson River, which brought significant flooding
to the region.
Hurricane Sandy gained additional strength
from unusually warm upper ocean temperatures
in the North Atlantic.
As the climate continues to warm,
temperatures in the upper layers of the ocean
are expected to increase, which could allow storms
to reach greater strength.
At the time of Superstorm Sandy, immediate emergency disaster
relief started with the President of the United States,
followed by a variety of coordinated federal-department
interventions, state-level responses,
and local on-the-ground relief aid.
Emergency decision making and financial flows
were reactionary to the immediate hazards
and destroyed infrastructure and sought
to reduce both pressing and future economic and human
vulnerabilities.
At the time of Superstorm Sandy, the U.S. federal government
and NYC had mechanisms in place for handling
disaster-risk management, but they had their limitations.
Neither New York nor New Jersey had disaster-relief funding
at the time of Superstorm Sandy.
During Superstorm Sandy, Mayor Michael Bloomberg
issued a mandatory evacuation for evacuation zone
A on October 28, 2012 which was day four.
Evacuation zones were split up into A, B, and C groups,
A being the highest flood risk, B having moderate likelihood
of evacuation, and C representing a possible,
but unlikely, evacuation.
Mandatory evacuations were in effect
for residents living in evacuation zone
A. The city ordered the evacuation of more than 370,000
people in low-lying communities from Coney Island in Brooklyn
to Battery Park City in Manhattan.
In the short- and mid-term recovery,
keeping New York economically competitive
was amongst the highest priorities.
NYC's economic short recovery was the highest priority
while communities depended on local volunteer efforts.
After taking stock of the initial damages,
there was a reactionary focus on coastal resilience.
Main objectives included minimizing upland wave zones,
which causes inundation or stagnant flooding,
increasing coastal elevation, integrating community flood
protection systems, improving coastal design and governance,
and repairing damaged coastal infrastructure.
Temporary maps, called Advisory Base Flood Elevation maps,
dictated zoning and rebuilding decisions.
Stronger, More Resilient New York, SIRR,
is New York City's comprehensive plan
to rebuild the most impacted communities,
increase resiliency of infrastructure systems,
and integrate and improve sea level rise climate
models into policy.
SIRR was spearheaded by the NYC mayor's office
during the Michael Bloomberg administration.
Coastal resilience measures undertaken include strengthened
bulkheads, raised seawalls, built tidal barriers,
broadened shorelines, constructed berms,
restored salt marshes, as well as replanted native vegetation,
softened land-sea slope edges, bought-out and restored land
to its natural state--
and one example is East Shore, Staten Island--
and elevated frequently flooded streets and street edges.
As a result of Superstorm Sandy, a variety of New York City risk
assessments were published in order
to increase safety standards and better prepare
for future extreme events.
New York State now requires homeowners
in the 100-year flood plain to build using FEMA free board
standards.
Free board is the additional amount
of height above the base flood elevation
or the 1% floodplain, 1 in 100-year flood.
And this is used as a factor of safety
to meet state floodplain management regulations.
Free board determines the level at which a structure's lowest
flood must be elevated or flood-proofed.
It is 2 feet for residential 1- and 2-family homes
and 1 foot for other buildings.
At the time that Superstorm Sandy hit the U.S. Eastern
Coast, New York City was ill-prepared
for an extreme event of this magnitude.
5,700 structures, composed of almost 163,000,
residences were situated in high-risk flooding areas.
Only 55% of those in high-risk flood areas
had flood insurance, meaning that 45% had
to rebuild or relocate using primarily personal resources.
Some NYC communities were fully inundated and needed
to be entirely rebuilt or relocated,
while utility providers scrambled to restore
aging critical infrastructure.
New Yorkers, especially in remote and underserved regions,
were left vulnerable.
Addressing social and environmental inequities
needs to be a top priority to reduce
community-level vulnerabilities.
Over 8,000 New Yorkers were without electricity
for 10 days or more while outside temperatures
were dropping.
Forty-three New Yorkers died, mainly
due to drowning, which could have been prevented
with proper evacuation.
Evacuations out of zone A did not go as planned,
and communications to New Yorkers
did not stress the severity of the situation.
Weather reporting from the National Hurricane
Center and local weather providers
lacked unified messaging.
Learning from Superstorm Sandy, it
is clear that some components of the response and recovery
were executed well, while other areas lacked rapid, fair,
and efficient action.
In Superstorm Sandy long-term recovery,
NYC has embedded climate-change projections
into rebuilding efforts and policies,
making the city more resilient to future climate extremes.
