
LARRY SUSSKIND: Hello.
My name is Larry Susskind.
I'm a faculty member in the Department of Urban Studies
and Planning at MIT.
I teach environmental kinds of subjects.
I teach energy related subjects and sustainable development
related subjects, but what I want to talk about today
is the rather startling moment we find ourselves
in where people are opposing new renewable energy
projects in their community.
And I want to talk about why that's happening based
on the research that we're doing in the Science Impact
Collaborative in the Department of Urban Studies and Planning,
and I want to talk about some of the lessons
we've learned that could help to avoid some of the opposition
to some of the renewable energy projects
across the United States.
It's absolutely crucial that we make these projects happen,
quite a few of them.
The way to reduce CO2 emissions is
to build or make a transition to and build renewable energy
facilities, whether those be onshore wind, offshore wind,
solar, rooftop solar, solar arrays of a large scale,
geothermal plants.
And I think some people would argue
hydroelectric plants should continue
to be listed as renewable energy facilities,
and some people would argue nuclear power plants should
be listed as renewable energy facilities.
The ones I've been looking at primarily
are solar, wind, geothermal, and the transmission lines
that allow the energy produced in one place
to be used in another place.

The US government last year, the federal government,
made a huge commitment financially
to infrastructure investment across the states.
They also made it clear they favored renewable energy
by offering tax breaks of various kinds
to private investors who want to build renewable energy
facilities.
The problem is that just because you have the money
and just because there's groups that have incentive
to want to build doesn't mean you're
going to be able to go ahead.
The team of students that I've put together
at MIT through the Science Impact Collaborative
found almost 60 cases in just a few months of doing research
where renewable energy projects have been blocked or stopped
permanently from one coast to the other.
All different kinds of projects, all at utility scale.
Not little tiny solar facilities in someone's backyard,
but facilities designed to add substantially
to the amount of electricity we can produce
from non-fossil fuel sources.
Why?
Why are people going to great lengths
to block proposed new renewable energy facilities?
We've studied our 60 cases in some detail,
following up with conversations with the people involved
in each of those projects to the extent we could
find them and talk to them.

There are a lot of different reasons.
This is not just people selfishly
not wanting their communities to change, otherwise known
as NIMBYs.
Not in my backyard.
There's an assumption that if someone's
opposed to something that someone else wants to do,
it's because they're selfishly protecting
their own place, their own interests,
and not willing to do something for the good
of the whole community.
That turns out not to be the case
in all of the controversies that we've studied.
Instead, let me give you some examples of what we found.
In the West in particular, Native American tribes
sued and intervened to try to stop
facilities proposed on their land
with no consultation with them.
The federal government or the state government
said, oh, well, this isn't private property.
Here, developer, this is a good spot.
You could put your facility here.
Well, it's required by law that there be consultation
with Native tribes.
And when there wasn't consultation,
the tribe intervened.
It intervened not just because it
was supposed to have a role in making this decision,
but often because the particular plans
that an investor from away had come up with
picked exactly the spot in the land
that they were sold or given where there were remains.
Historically significant remains of earlier ancestors buried,
artifacts buried, sacred sites.
How could they pick, in a large area, exactly the spot that
needed to be preserved and protected
for ceremonial and religious reasons?
Because they had no conversation with the people in the place.
They used satellite data, they picked a spot,
they got permission, they put a plan
together as fast as they could, and they
came to the regulatory authority for permission,
and that's when the tribes heard about this.

In some instances, groups of people living near the proposed
facility--
again, once something was announced--
said, you can't put a facility there.
Didn't you look at a map?
That's an endangered and protected habitat.
It's already mapped as a protected habitat
by the federal and state government.
What are you doing?
You have a thousand acres.
Move it.
Well, no, we have a plan.
We paid an engineer to design our facility.
We've laid everything out for this spot.
We put our application in.
We're seeking permissions from the regulators.
There's nothing about what we're proposing that's illegal.
And then the others would say, oh, yes, there is.
You can't be encroaching on endangered habitat,
and then we go to court.
And the project would be at least delayed and often
stopped entirely.

In some instances, developers had no interest
in letting anyone know what they had in mind
because they didn't want the land they didn't own yet
to suddenly go up higher in price,
so they secretly threw what are called straws.
So people who didn't, in fact, say that they represented
a facility developer bought the rights
to use certain land for a facility.
And then again, designed it as quickly
as they could using standard designs brought
to them from different engineering consultants
only to discover that they had to also prepare
an environmental impact assessment in order
to get a permit.
And the assessment made very clear
that what they were proposing in terms of location, design,
mitigation, compensatory options for people living nearby
were inadequate.
They certainly weren't the least environmentally harmful version
of the project that could go ahead, and people objected.
Again, we went to court in these instances
or we were engaged in political delays that slowed or stopped
regulatory or permitting activities.

In at least two states, legislators
decided it was so important to build renewable energy
facilities, and the developers pressed the elected officials
to let them go ahead because climate change requires
shifting to renewable energy, that the legislators preempted
the normal local reviews.
So local governments who usually have decision power over land
use decisions found that, in this case, too late, too bad.
Decisions were being preempted by the county or the state.
That just caused the unit of local government
to sue and to politically seek some kind
of redress in the state legislature,
and again, opposition and delay.

We found a whole series of instances in which projects
were stopped, but in 14 of our 60 cases they were eventually
built. That wasn't because the developers won in court
and shut down local resistance.
It was because the developers opted out
because the delay meant they weren't going
to get a return on their investment fast enough,
so they basically sold the site and the idea of the facility
to another investor at a reduced rate.
And what did the new investor do?
What the first investor should have done.
Sit down and talk to the people who are
upset about what was proposed.
Oh, you mean the turbine is going to only
be 50 feet from your house?
Well, that's terrible.
Why don't we move it over here and change the array?
Oh, OK, fine, then we'll support your plan.

Farmers who were saying that you're
asking the city, the town to rezone the land
industrial right next to us.
We're an agricultural zone.
There'll be so much pressure to convert our agricultural land
to industrial land that farming will become untenable.
Oh.
OK.
Let's work with you to pass a new plan for the whole town,
a new master plan that designates
new regions on a permanent basis,
do land use areas on a permanent basis
and not do this piecemeal.
There were so many instances--
14 in particular-- in which conversation
aimed at understanding the interests, the needs,
the values of local people led to a joint problem solving
conversation that then allowed the project,
in a new and different form in a slightly different location
with somewhat different technology
with compensation to people adversely affected
with promises to do things off-site
that that community required as an indication
of enough environmental benefit to counteract
what were unavoidable environmental costs.
MIT is proposing to create a renewable energy
facility siting clinic in the coming year.
And at this clinic, communities battling
about these kinds of proposed facilities, if they all agree,
all the people fighting, can bring their case to MIT,
to the clinic, and student teams will
work with all sides and a professional mediator
to try to engage in joint fact finding,
to try to engage in collaborative problem solving,
and to come up with a version of the project plus,
where plus is what it takes beyond the original proposal
to meet the interests of those who are adversely affected
by the proposed facility.
Just because the facility's positive,
all the gains to all the gainers outweigh the losses
to the losers, doesn't mean it should be a go.
There should be an effort to try to take some of those gains
and use them to offset any losses, to make people--
to hold people harmless, to make it possible for them to not
need to oppose to protect their interests.
It's very worrisome.
There are other states right now,
and there are philanthropies supporting efforts
in other states to try to preempt
local review on the grounds that it empowers NIMBY behavior.
I would argue just the opposite.
That the effort to preempt local engagement
in meaningful joint problem solving
is going to cause delays and take
even longer to make the transition to renewable energy.
So the moral of this story is go slow to go fast.
It's absolutely crucial that the people
who will be affected by renewable energy plans,
as important as they are to meeting our climate goals,
have a say in how those projects go forward.
