JANELLE KNOX-HAYES: Hello, my name is Janelle Knox-Hayes.
I'm a professor in the Department of Urban Studies
and Planning at MIT.
And in this video, we will learn about the political economy
of climate action.
The 2008 financial crisis was also
devastating for the average American.
8 million jobs disappeared.
$17 trillion in household net worth evaporated.
There were 8 million home foreclosures,
and home prices plummeted by 32%.
Retirement accounts fell by $2.8 trillion.
And overall, the economy of the United States shrank by 4.7%.
In the aftermath of the financial crisis,
it became impossible for President Obama
to agree on an internationally binding treaty that
would have potential economic ramifications for the United
States.
So although the 2009 Copenhagen meetings
would have otherwise saw the extension of the Kyoto
Protocol, the countries, particularly the US and China,
came without sufficient targets to reach an agreement.
And instead of following the working group
tracks of negotiation at the last minute,
the world leaders of Brazil, the United States, India, China,
and South Africa stepped aside into a room.
President Obama took out a legal pad
and drafted what they called the Copenhagen Accord.
It sidestepped the COP process and said
that the US would try to make minimal reductions,
and developing economies would pursue energy intensity
targets.
They took this back to the plenary session
and asked all countries to take note.
The US press called this a success
and had headlines such as President Obama
brings home the Copenhagen Accord.
European counterparts acknowledge this as a disaster.
Copenhagen Accord was a disaster, for example,
said Sweden.
So with the absence of a framework
to extend the Kyoto Protocol, the city actors
became increasingly important.
And a number of initiatives were established and promoted,
including the governor's alliance; the Climate Alliance
with 1,000 local authorities in Europe;
sustainable cities, including the UN and UNEP;
the linking environment and development directive;
and then the cities for climate protection, ICLEI,
which had been established in 1993
but had more than 650 local governments participate
after the failure of Copenhagen; and then
finally, the C40 cities and climate leadership group,
which was established in 2005 but took the rain
on maintaining momentum for climate
change mitigation in the aftermath of Copenhagen.
Ultimately, countries were able to stabilize
the international system after 2012 and keep it alive
until a new framework could be established
in 2015, the Paris Accord, which took a very different approach.
It eliminated the idea of common but differentiated
responsibility and instead established
a principle of pledge and review through which every country
would set its own intended nationally
determined contribution rather than a common binding target.
The EU throughout all of this remains incredibly consistent.
They've maintained their leadership,
while the United States has faltered.
In 2015, they pledged to reduce greenhouse gas emissions
by at least 40% by 2030 against a 1990 baseline.
They have year after year ratcheted up their target
from where they started in Kyoto.
The US brought a 26% to 28% reduction against a 2005
baseline by 2030, which, in fact, represents
a 1% increase over what they pledged in Kyoto.
So by shifting the baseline, they've
significantly reduced the commitment of their target.
Russia, Canada, Japan, Brazil, and Australia have followed
the United States' ambition shifting their baseline to 2005
and pushing their reduction goal out to 2030.
And then emerging economies like China, Brazil, and India
have maintained the idea that they will only
support an emissions intensity reduction,
making their use of fossil fuels more efficient,
but not stopping their growth.
For some of these countries, such as Brazil,
the target actually amounts to a slight increase
in current emissions because of their efficacy
in stopping deforestation between 2005 and 2012.
So many countries look at the Paris Accord as a failure
because the teeth have come out of the international agreement.
Countries are no longer making the same kinds of commitments
that they were prior to the Paris Accord
or in the Kyoto era.
Additionally, the stocktake, which
was supposed to occur for these countries,
has not yet occurred because of the COVID pandemic
and because it's taken so long for countries
to agree the rulebooks of the principles
behind the Paris Accord.
As a consequence, that won't happen
until December of this year.
But on the positive side, pledge and review
has brought virtually every country in the world
into the international agreement.
There are now 196 signatories.
But in the heart of this agreement
seems to be the idea that countries
will reduce greenhouse gas emissions through emissions
trading.
This has benefits but also consequences
that we'll discuss across the other videos.
Ultimately, it also points to the significance and importance
of cities in climate change in reducing greenhouse gas
emissions and also in adapting to climate change.
Cities are both the cause and the solution.
They account for 55% of the world's population.
They account for 75% of the world's greenhouse gas
emissions, and 70% of cities are already
dealing with the dire consequences of climate change.
These include sea level rise.
800 million people will be impacted by sea level rise
by 2050, the vast majority of these living in cities.
Water scarcity, today there are 255 million people in cities
that face extreme water stress.
By 2030, this number will grow to more than 470 million.
Cities represent vulnerable, informal economies
with 80% of urban employment in the informal sector,
which is characterized by vulnerable employment
with no access to social protection,
decent working conditions, or workers' rights.
There are also considerable opportunities
as we will explore in other videos in this series,
including the fact that cities, while they cover only 1%
of the world's terrain, are home to more than 50%
of the population and produce 80% of the gross world product.
78% of the world's energy is also consumed in cities.
So reducing energy, changing infrastructure,
establishing new social systems in cities
can have a profound impact on the impact
we are having on the global climate change phenomenon.
And finally, cities can be testbeds for resilience
and frameworks for resilience like the equitable resilience
because people live in close proximity.
They have tight social and political networks.
Jobs, education, health care, transportation, energy
and infrastructure are closely interlinked.
And there is the opportunity in transforming cities
to transform climate resilience.