JENNIFER STOWELL: Hello, everyone.
My name is Jennifer Stowell and I'm
a postdoc in the Center for Climate and Health
at Boston University.
Both my master's and PhD research
focus on the effects of climate on health,
and more specifically on the adverse health effects
of wildfire smoke exposure.
And we'll take the next few minutes
to discuss this important environmental exposure
in urban populations.
So there's just a few objectives that I'd like to cover today.
First of all, we're going to walk through the fire
triangle and the impact that climate change can
have on each of those arms.
We'll then seek to understand the potential risk
to urban areas from wildfire activity,
and we'll link wildfire smoke exposure to human health,
and then we'll talk about a few of the next important steps
for researchers moving forward.
So we show here on the left the fire triangle.
In order for a wildfire to occur there
are three required elements.
These three elements are heat or an ignition source, fuel,
and a source of oxygen. And in multiple ways
climate change can increase the chances
that these elements will be present.
For example, fuel is heavily reliant on both precipitation
and heat waves.
So as temperatures rise, and precipitation patterns change,
wildfire seasons have become much hotter and drier.
Climate can also affect the presence of oxygen
through increasing wind speeds and also
more extreme differences between land and sea temperatures.
And finally, as we're all aware, climate also
impacts the sources of heat for wildfires,
and this can include increasing temperatures and the increasing
frequency in lightning strikes.

As we've all witnessed, wildfire activity
is definitely increasing especially in recent years.
And we've seen significant increases
in frequency, size, and severity especially in the Western US.
So for example, 6 of the 20 largest wildfires in California
history occurred in the 2020 wildfire season alone,
and we can see this steady increase in conjunction
with changing temperatures.
So as shown in this graphic here from Climate Central,
we see temperatures superimposed over the number
of large wildfires in the West.
And as you can see both of them have a pretty significant
upward trajectory.
Of course, that varies from year to year,
but this upward trajectory is becoming more and more
concerning.

So coming back to our discussion of the fire triangle,
it's evident that climate change is a significant contributor
to environmental elements necessary for fire.
Again, such as high temperatures, lower soil
moisture, and shifting precipitation.
And we can see these patterns in the following graphs from NOAA.
On the left, we see the percentage change
in the number of days with higher temperatures.
In the middle, we're looking at the disturbing increases
in dryness across the Western US.
And then finally, on the right, we
see changes in the number of days with higher winds.
And each of these three changes help
to create conditions favorable to the occurrence
of a wildfire.

So I'd like to switch gears for just a moment
and introduce the term wildland urban interface or the WUI.
The WUI is the zone of transition
between human development and undeveloped land,
meaning that this is the boundary where
human activity begins to mix with wildland fuels
such as trees, grass, and shrubs.
And this is a great concern for a couple of different reasons.
Number one, humans tend to be the cause
of the majority of the wildfires that we experience in the US.
It's also a concern because the WUI is growing in size.
So in 2016, there were an estimated 46 million residences
located in the WUI, and the WUI has
been growing by approximately 2 million acres per year,
and this is especially concerning, again,
in the West with states like California,
in particular, who has the highest number of dwellings
at risk a WUI fire.

So this meant in our minds the reason
why the WUI is of greatest concern we can think back just
a few years to one of the largest and most tragic fires
in US history.
You will likely remember the campfire that occurred late
in 2018 in California.
The ignition source came from powerlines,
and that started a fire that quickly burned
through extremely dry fuel.
In addition, the air itself was incredibly warm and dry due
to what's called the Santa Ana winds that
affect California in the late fall
and early winter each year.
It was also the deadliest wildland fire in California
history with 85 fatalities.
And you can see here on the top right, the sheer size
and magnitude of both the flames and the smoke plume
from the fire.
And on the bottom, we're looking at a neighborhood in one
of the areas burned by the fire, and as you can see here,
the neighborhood was completely devastated.

So aside from injury from the flames themselves,
smoke is also a significant danger for human health,
and particulate matter in smoke has
been linked to many adverse health outcomes.
Of specific concern, are particles less than 2.5
microns.
Due to their size, these particles
can travel deep into the respiratory tract
and here they can cause damage through triggered inflammation
processes.
Some of these particles can also find their way
into the bloodstream at the membrane shared by the alveoli
and the capillaries.
And of course, the effects of PM 2.5 have been documented.
So we've established that increased wildfire activity
is brought on by things such as high temperatures and droughts.
There are also positive feedback loops in the fire system
that compound this issue.
We won't spend a whole lot of time here,
but this graphic here demonstrates these feedback
loops.
Essentially what we mean by positive feedback loops
is the ability for this system to perpetuate
itself and eventually downstream human vulnerability.
And we see this vulnerability in the impact
of wildfire smoke on health.
Smoke PM 2.5 specifically has been
linked to multiple adverse health outcomes,
including COPD, asthma exacerbations, low birth
weight, and premature death among the few.

So it's important to note that wildfire PM 2.5 doesn't just
affect humans in the WUI and surrounding areas.
Because fires are greater and more frequent,
smoke is traveling to urban areas far away.
Also, cities are continuing to expand, bringing humans
closer and closer into contact with fuel sources.
And again, humans being a main cause of the wildfires
that we experienced, putting those close to the fuel sources
is a bad idea.
As a result, we're already seeing significant increases
in urban pollution linked to wildfire activity,
especially PM 2.5 and ozone.

So of course, there's still information gaps
but we do know quite a bit.
We know that temperatures are rising,
and the resultant effects on the fire system,
many studies have also shown the effects of climate change
on air quality, and in turn, the effects
of air quality on health.
However, we still struggle with modeling personal exposures
to wildfire smoke, and it's still
difficult to determine because our models are imperfect.
Monitoring stations are able to measure things like total PM
2.5, but our current technology does not
allow for us to separate that out
by source, such as traffic versus wildfires,
and we're still limited by these modeling capabilities.
And finally, there's still gaping holes
in our understanding of other health outcomes,
but also future burdens on human health as a result of climate
change.

So who is most affected, probably the people
that you would expect.
Children have biological differences
in their respiration patterns, as well as the amount of time
that they spend outside.
Elderly individuals tend to live in older homes,
have less mobility, and often less education.
Minorities similarly tend to live in older homes,
also have mobility issues, they often lack AC or air purifiers,
and they experience both low income and low education.
And then pregnant women and infants,
so there's some very important biological developmental
windows here, and the experience of being pregnant
has been looked at as an underlying
condition for other health outcomes
and the different environmental exposures associated with them.

So recently, in the last few years,
the National Academies of science
hosted a workshop that was devoted
to the subject of wildfires and human health.
And from those proceedings some major gaps were highlighted,
and we've talked about them a little bit,
but some of these gaps include an understanding
of wildfire impact on indoor air pollution.
Also, exposure to smoke as a risk factor for other diseases,
and then again, mental health issues, pregnancy, children.

An additional research frontier is the understanding
of smoke exposure from prescribed burning.
If you're not familiar with it, prescribed burning,
in many parts of the country, is used as a source
of fire suppression.
However, little is known about the health
impact of these fires compared to wildfires,
so much more needs to be done in this area.

So let's take a moment to review what
we've learned, we now understand what the fire triangle is,
and that there are different types of fire,
like wildfire versus prescribed fire.
We've established that climate change can greatly
impact this future system with implications for human health.
And then we've talked about some of the next steps
to better understand this risk, which
include looking specifically at things like prescribed fire,
the mental health impact of wildfire exposure,
and adverse pregnancy related outcomes that may be linked
to wildfire smoke exposure.
So as the urban populations impacted by smoke exposure
continues to grow under climate change
and are expanding urban areas, there's
a significant need to continue research
on the human impact from exposure.
So thank you for joining me today
to talk about the impact of climate change
on urban populations due to wildfire smoke exposure.
You can find additional information
on wildfire smoke exposure via the EPA, CDC,
and American Lung Association websites.
Thank you very much.