
Hi.
My name is Paul Kirshen.
In my previous presentation, I spoke
about a study about a feasibility
of a harbor-wide barrier to protect
Boston Harbor in the United States
from present increased coastal flooding.
The end result of that study was it really
wasn't feasible to build a harbor-wide barrier for Boston
Harbor because of all sorts of considerations.
Now I want to talk about an alternative
to a harbor-wide barrier using nature-based solutions
along the shoreline to protect cities
in the area from present increased coastal flooding.
Now, this is what a nature-based solution is not.
These are traditional hard gray infrastructure.
So on the left, you see a traditional seawall,
on the right, you see a revetment for Maryland.
Now these systems actually cause environmental damage.
They can have short lifetimes and they also
provide no social benefits to communities around them.
So what's an alternative to these?
Well, one alternative to these is
so-called nature-based systems.
A nature-based system is an engineered system
that mimics the performance of a natural system.
And just how does a natural system
function in terms of a flood-protection system?
Well, here are some examples.
So over here is a coral reef.
Let me get the pointer on it.
Here it is.
Here's a coral reef system.
So the coral reef actually breaks up the wave energy
so there's less damage on shore.
Mangrove system operates in the same way.
The dense vegetation along the shoreline
breaks up the wave energy so there's not
erosion on the shoreline.
Of course, neither of these systems
actually stop the storm surge itself,
but they do stop the destructive wave energy.
Now this system is a barrier beach with tidal wetlands.
Here at the barrier beach, the elevation
actually stops the storm surge.
And of course it also limits the wave energy.
Then finally over here on the left,
we have a harbor, actually, it's Boston Harbor.
With many islands in it.
The islands actually break up the wave energy.
So these are natural systems that function
as flood-protection systems.
And the idea of these nature-based systems
is to engineer a system like this,
to actually build a system.
And what do these built nature-based solutions
look like?
Well, actually, before I get to that,
I want to show you really how effective these systems are.
So in the top image, these are both images,
both sets of images from Sandy in New York City from Hurricane
Sandy there.
And in the top, you see this area here
there's dense vegetation and dune system along the coast.
Well, after Sandy, most of that dune system was still intact
but also the property behind it was in good shape.
Here we see a system before the storm
where there's no dune system, no vegetation to protect it.
Then after the storm you see a great deal of damage.
So these nature-based systems actually work.
And what do they look like when they're engineered?
Well, here's an example that is proposed
for one area of Boston.
And you can see that they built a park
right along the shoreline.
But they built elevation.
So the elevation protects against the storm surge.
Also, it's designed to also break up wave energy.
In this system, unlike a concrete structure,
a great infrastructure, there's many important co-benefits.
So for example, here is a marsh.
This marsh provides ecosystem benefits.
You don't get that with a gray system.
Then also notice the recreational benefits here.
The system is providing open space to an area of Boston,
and this could be very important in certain areas of Boston
where there's not too much open space.
Yet with a system like this you provide them flood protection,
you provide ecosystem co-benefits
and you also provide important social co-benefits.
And here's another example of another nature-based system
proposed for Boston.
This is actually a berm proposed to protect
parts of East Boston.
And again notice the elevation, notice the vegetation
for ecosystem benefits, and notice the social benefits
here.
Here's another one for another area of East Boston, Fourth
Point Channel.
Again, right now the channel area looks like this.
Well, if you're going to protect it with a nature-based system,
you can have a system like this where the elevation will
protect against the storm surge flooding,
the vegetation will provide ecosystem benefits,
and of course, the open space will
provide social co-benefits.
And here's another system.
This is the so-called cobble berm.
Cobble berm is that cobble is actually these rocks here.
So when you get a storm here, the waves
come in but hit the cobble.
The cobble moves, absorbs wave energy,
so it's less erosion on the shoreline.
And of course, this is elevated so it also protects the little
against storm surge.
Now, you can actually put these built systems together
in a tiered system.
So here's an example for one area.
So offshore you might have a barrier island,
and a little more inshore you might have
oyster beds or a salt marsh.
Then right along the coastline you
may actually have a gray system.
But here is a tiered system made up
of several aspects of nature-based systems
with a hybrid gray system.
So there are many things you can do
with these nature-based solutions.
Now in this slide I'm going to talk about some
of the advantages of these nature-based systems compared
to the harbor-wide barrier, which we proposed,
which was originally proposed to protect Boston
for increased coastal flooding.
Well, these shore-based nature-based systems,
first of all, they manage tidal and storm surge flooding.
They deal with both flooding you get during a high tide
as well as the flooding you would get during a storm surge.
Because these systems are natural,
or have natural elements in them,
they can adjust as the climate changes.
Also, unlike a gray system, they have
potential to actually perform better over time,
whereas a gray system might actually perform worse
over time as it gets worn out.
In some cases, these nature-based solutions
and systems actually have less cost
per foot than a hard system.
And as I said earlier, the systems provide
may co-benefits, ecological as well as social.
And they can have a long functional lifetime.
Now one of the drawbacks of these nature-based systems
is that there are some uncertainties
in their performance.
Now, let's look at this offshore harbor-wide barrier
that was proposed for Boston.
As you may recall, there were two systems proposed.
One was near shore, which isn't shown here.
This shows the system going from Winthrop over here
to Hull, an area length of several miles.
So this system would only manage surge flooding.
You'd only close these gates when
you have a storm coming in.
You cannot possibly close them every time you have high tide
flooding event.
Also, as I pointed out, these take a long lifetime to build.
It may take 30 years or longer to get these design permitted
than actually constructed.
A major disadvantage of these large offshore barriers
is they're undigestible.
Once you decide to build it, you decide on design elevation
and then build for that.
If you underestimate the design elevation, when it's finally
built there'll be more damage.
If you overestimate, you've wasted money.
With a nature-based system on the shore,
you can build these systems up over time
as the climate changes.
Also, they don't take 30 years to get in place.
Also, in this case of the harbor-wide barrier for Boston,
it was very high cost.
It also had limited or no co-benefits
and actually had negative externalities.
And finally, had a relatively short functional lifetime.
Because as I pointed out, initially you
might only be opening and closing the gates
a couple of times a year.
But eventually as itself was drawn up.
You're opening and closing as much as 10,
20, 30 times a year.
These gates are not designed for that kind of system
and that kind of use.
And so the system would become unfunctional perhaps
after 30 years under various scenarios of civil rights.
And so with this information, what
did the mayor of Boston proposed in October 2018, once he
had read the harbor-wide feasibility study and also
the possible advantages of nature-based systems
onshore as an alternative?
As he wrote, as he spoke, "I want
to address one proposal that's been
discussed for several years--
a massive barrier across Boston Harbor.
Besides taking decades to complete,
a barrier would bring its own set
of serious ecological issues.
The fact is, we're all here in this city
we love because of a naturally sheltered harbor.
We built Boston on it.
We cleaned it up.
Instead of walling off our harbor,
we need to work with it.
Shoreline projects are more feasible and more effective
ways to increase our city's resilience.
We have to focus on the most vulnerable areas in the flood
maps, the entry points for water into our city."
Then the mayor showed this image, his vision
of the city of Boston.
And you can see all along the coastline here is
proposed green infrastructure.
Now what are the drawbacks of green infrastructure?
To make an area greener and also more flood resilient,
you're going to create gentrification.
You're going to raise rents in you're
going to drive away the very people you're
trying to protect.
So one solution to that is here in East Boston.
This is what it looks right now, this
is what it might look like with green infrastructure.
Notice though, that working with the residents in Charette,
they said, look, make it green, but also put
in a lot of affordable housing so we
can manage to stay here on the coast, the coast we love.
So thank you very much for your attention
and please contact me for any more questions or comments.
