JANELLE KNOX-HAYES: Hello.
My name is Janelle Knox-Hayes.
I'm a Professor in the Department of Urban Studies
and Planning at MIT and in this video,
we will learn about the political economy
of climate action.
The Framework Convention is guided
by the Conference of Parties, and the Conference of Parties
are both the supreme decision making body of the convention.
They review the implementation of the convention
and they take decisions necessary to implement
the convention.
The COP includes a secretariat and various formal
administrative bodies.
It also represents a series of conferences
that are held twice a year, once in June
and once in November or December of every year.
The meetings in June are administerial
and they are used to guide the development of protocols
and the negotiations that take place
between ministers in December.
Not every year is equally significant,
but within the last 30 years, there
have been major years for the Conference of Party.
The first was in 1997 the Kyoto Protocol,
because this is where the first binding
targets were established between Annex I parties.
The next significant conference is the 2009 Copenhagen
conference because this is where parties
were meant to agree the extension of the Kyoto
Protocol, which would expire in 2012.
They were unsuccessful in Copenhagen
and so ultimately waited until 2015 with the Paris Agreement
and the Paris Accord to establish
a framework that would replace the Kyoto Protocol.
More recently in 2019, the conference
was meant to take place in Santiago,
but due to political unrest was shifted to Madrid.
This was meant to be the conference where
the rulebook, the rules that would
guide the operation of the Paris Accord would be established.
But their parties were also unsuccessful
in finalizing the rulebook, and in 2020, the conference
was delayed because of the COVID pandemic.
So in 2021, which took place in Glasgow,
the parties were finally able to establish
the rulebook of the Paris Accord,
particularly focusing on Article VI, which is the article that
guides the international trade between parties
within the conference.
And then finally in 2022, Sharm El Sheik,
the parties agreed on the principle of loss and damage,
which is the idea that developed states will establish a fund
to compensate developing states for the losses and damages
that they incur as a consequence of the need for climate
adaptation.
There are several critical principles
in each of the protocols.
In the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which
is adopted by the COP in December 1997
and it opened for signature in 1998,
but not ratified until 2005, the principle
of the common but differentiated responsibilities
was formalized.
Annex I countries included OECD developed countries
with binding targets.
Nonannexed countries were developing countries.
And the main feature of the protocol
is that it establishes legally binding commitments
to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases
for Annex I parties, which is a percent reduction below 1990
levels between the final commitment
period of 2008 and 2012.
And then Article 25, the double threshold
was important because it was required to bring countries
into the treaty.
And this basically said that if I take action,
but my neighbors don't, I ultimately
won't be held to the targets that I set.
So to come into force, at least 55 Annex I countries,
the majority representing at least 55% of 1990 level
Annex I emissions must ratify the protocol.
The countries all agreed 1990 would be the base level,
because this was the year before the collapse of the Soviet
Union.
And so in 1992 and 1998, this was the highest level peak
emissions relative to where the world was
with its current carbon output.
And then there were three flexible mechanisms,
the international emissions trading, the clean development
mechanism, and joint implementation.
There were a number of enforcement mechanisms
in the Kyoto Protocol but it was challenging
because it's difficult to get countries to accept
international agreements.
So in particular, there was an enforcement branch,
which is a quasijudicial process similar to World Trade
Organization dispute settlement that
ensured that penalties were imposed
on non-compliant parties.
And then there was a facilitative branch,
which would advise and facilitate
the implementation of the protocol.
The consequence that was written into the enforcement mechanism
for non-compliance was that the enforcement branch
must decide the party's non-compliance
and deduct 1.3 times the excess tons from the parties assigned
amount for the second compliance period.
So in effect, if a country failed
to meet their targets under the Kyoto Protocol,
the compliance enforcement branch
would make it even more difficult
for them to meet their targets in the second enforcement
period.
They would have a 30% more difficult target
and they would have to try to catch up.
And then the party's, the enforcement branch
would request an action plan and suspend
the ability of the country to trade
their assigned allowances, meaning they also couldn't
meet their target by exchanging credits with other countries.
In theory and in principle, this was a good approach
because it was meant to signal that countries should
take their target seriously.
But in effect, it just meant that when
a number of countries like Japan, Australia
were unable to meet their targets,
they simply left the Kyoto Protocol.
And this helped in the collapse of the international system.
The other component of the Kyoto Protocol
that was really difficult was ultimately
the United States' lack of willingness
to continue with the idea of common but differentiated
responsibility.
When the United States initially agreed to the treaty,
China and India did not yet have major economies.
This rapidly changed with the intervention of Mao Zedong's
replacement, Deng Xiaoping.
He was the chairman of China between 1978 and 1989
and was instrumental in a series of reforms
that opened China's economy.
He famously once said, no matter if it's
a white cat or a black cat, as long as it can catch mice,
it's a good cat.
And this was a way to tell the Chinese people don't
worry if the economy is actually socialist or capitalist.
As long as it's producing growth,
as long as it's enhancing welfare, it's a good economy.
And this cleverly allowed China to remain
a socialist or communist country,
but to develop what they called capitalism
with Chinese characteristics.
40 years ago, more than 88% of China's population
lived on less than $2 a day.
With Deng Xiaoping's intervention, the creation
of special economic zones in the 1980s and early 1990s,
the creation of financial centers in places
like Shanghai, and the invitation to the world's
market to join the Chinese economy for manufacturing
and production, China ushered in a new era
of growth and development, such that by December 11
2001 when it ascended to the World Trade Organization,
it was already a major emerging economy and a clear threat
to the United States.
So it's not surprising that in 2001, President George H Bush
withdrew the United States from the Kyoto Protocol.
And as you can see in this clip below, at the time,
it was not a matter of party politics.
He made clear that the science of climate change
is real, that the United States would still
work with our allies in Europe and in the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change
to establish a better treaty.
But ultimately, the US could no longer
accept the principle of common but differentiated
responsibility.
President Bush called this flawed.
He said that we had to protect the US economy
and we had to protect energy prices.
And the administration also had a careful calculation.
At that point in time, the US accounted
for 45% of Annex I emissions, which
meant that this should trigger the failure
of the double threshold.
It would be virtually impossible for the other developed
countries to get 55 countries to agree in 55% of the annex I's
greenhouse gas emissions because that
would mean they would have to get everyone else.
This movement really angered the European Union and European
leaders.
They had been trying for 10 years
to establish a common carbon tax policy in Europe
because they had successfully responded
to the threat of ozone depletion with a tax system,
whereas the United States had ultimately
used a market mechanism, the acid rain trading system.
And so they decided because you need unanimity
within the European system to establish a tax,
they would instead try for a market
policy, which only needed a majority
response to achieve policy.
And so they created the 2003 EU directive 2003/87/EC,
which established the European Union Emission Trading System.
The directive had the aim to contribute
to fulfilling the commitments of the European community
and its member states more effectively
through an efficient European market in greenhouse gas
emission allowances with the least
possible loss of economic development and employment.
The establishment of the European Union Emissions
Trading System initially accounted
for 45% of Europe's emissions.
It capped the emissions of 10,000 installations, including
power-heavy industry, and established a trading system
with yearly compliance targets that
had ramifications for the rest of the world because of the way
in which the world was trading with Europe.
This also critically signal to the business community
that the idea of carbon compliance,
of carbon emissions reduction, would
be a future reality, a future risk that they would have
to contend to, and even without the movement of the United
States, create a global inertial inertia for greenhouse gas
emission reductions.
The EU ETS was set up in three phases with caps to tighten
and the scope to be increased between each phase.
It also critically established a linking directive
with the clean development mechanism.
Initially under the Kyoto Protocol,
the clean development mechanism was meant to do two things.
It was meant to recognize that emissions in the developing
world would be easier and cheaper
to achieve because these countries were less efficient.
And the argument was that emissions reduction anywhere
would be the same as an emissions
reduction everywhere because it is a global phenomenon.
The other idea was that if, for a series of decades,
only Annex I countries participated in the, convention
they would become so much more technologically advanced
and energy efficient that the developing world would never
catch up.
The developing world would not be able to participate.
So the clean development mechanism
was meant to be a way to engage the developing
world through the creation of offset projects, projects where
the developed world would come in
and share technology would establish
the creation of clean energy through for example,
wind farms, solar projects, hydro farms that would help
developing countries both reduce emissions for the developed
world, but also help them advance
their technological exchange and development.
And the CDM created the linking directive with the EU ETS
created a marketplace for all of these projects.
So this map, for example, shows the growth and thousands
of projects in the CDM over the course
of the lifetime of the program.
Some say it was a major success.
More than 6,000 projects were established
in places like China, 900 projects in Brazil.
And it was a major initiative for the creation
of technology markets.
But as you can see from these graphics,
the impacts of the CDM were also profoundly unequal.
Emerging economies like India, China, Brazil, South
Africa, Mexico were able to capture
the benefits of these programs.
It was much difficult for least developing countries
on the continent of Africa, for example,
or across Southeast Asia, or even in Latin America
to gain access to these projects because they couldn't establish
both the political and financial guarantee to allow investment
in their countries for clean projects.
But it also had a major factor in establishing wind and energy
markets in places like China.
China went in 2005 from having 0% market
share in clean and wind energy technologies to becoming
the world's leader by 2012.
With the success of the EU ETS, its ability
to link with an established global markets through the CDM,
there was the-- the world was ripe for another agreement
in 2009 at Copenhagen, an extension
of the Kyoto Protocol.
The United States had, at the time,
a Democratic president, President Barack Obama,
who made climate change one of his platforms
and said he would lead the United States back
into the global arena.