MINAL PATHAK: Hello, everyone.
My name is Minal Pathak.
I'm an Associate Professor with the Global
Center for Environment and Energy at Ahmedabad University.
We are based in Western India.
I'm also the senior scientist with the technical support
unit of working group three of the IPCC.
And as you know, working group three deals
with mitigation of climate change.
Today, I'm going to talk about decarbonizing transport
in South Asia and I'm going to give examples
from Ahmedabad city.
But before I go into Ahmedabad, I'm
going to talk a little bit about what
the report says on mitigation.
And we clearly state in the report that unless there are
immediate and deep emission reductions across all sectors,
1.5 is beyond reach .
And I'd like to point to the words "immediate" and "deep,"
just highlighting the fact that the level of ambition we need
is quite steep.

And the report also clearly states the net-zero emissions
date to 2050s if we have to meet the 1.5 degree target
and we need to achieve net-zero CO2 emissions by 2070
for our two degree target.
And we know that net-zero CO2 emissions
is a condition in which anthropogenic, which
is the human-induced carbon dioxide emissions
are balanced by anthropogenic CO2 removals over a specified
period.
And reaching net zero means we are
to transition in a situation where
all our activities combined do not add any further CO2
into the atmosphere.

Many countries and cities have already
announced net-zero targets.
The report shows that there are several options available
now in every sector that can halve emissions by 2030.
And the report has a chapter on cities.
It talks about how urban areas, while they concentrate people
and emissions, they also are centers where deep emission
reductions are possible.
And today we're going to talk briefly
about strategies and cities focusing on the transport
sector but you would see also the focus
on demand and services here that reducing demand
is key to bringing down greenhouse gas emissions.
But not all cities and all countries
are at the same place.
There are challenges and opportunities
that differ across cities by the level of development,
by the level of resource endowments,
and by income levels.
So this slide is from the summary
for urban policymakers, which was drawing on from IPCC
sixth assessment report.
And just talking about developing countries, cities,
there are other priorities like poverty eradication,
meeting infrastructure needs, providing services
to a large section of the population,
growing informality.
And then amidst all these challenges,
we also have the additional ambition
to meet climate change objectives, both for mitigation
and adaptation.
And so just switching to South Asia,
that many cities are at a very early stage
of urban development.
And the future pathways would depend
on actions taken or not taken now, and therefore
different futures.
So India, as many of you might know, we are only 35% urban.
So we still have a long way to go.
And that is we expect significant growth
in population, which might also lead
to increase in demand for land and infrastructure,
but growing demand for buildings, for transportation,
for services, for materials, energy, and therefore all
of this is going to contribute to greenhouse gas emissions.
But before we go into the transport sector,
let me just quickly go over the governance structure in India.
So we have a three-tiered governance structure
where there is a national government
and the subnational governments include
the state and the local governments,
and functions vary across these different levels of governance.
And at the local level, we have the urban and rural government.
And just to say that in the 1990s,
India amended its constitution and the reform
involved devolving more powers to the local governments.
But currently, this is not being implemented,
and therefore cities do not have adequate capacity
and financial resources to implement.
So taxes and the finance goes to the high levels
of the government, which is then sent to the local governments.
And local governments do not have
their own significant sources of revenue,
which becomes challenging for them
to implement ambitious action.
So this is really a key feature to highlight in climate action,
that while we talk about the larger goal of cities
being able to implement ambitious action,
but often cities don't have the powers to enact.
Therefore, this limits what they can do and what they cannot do.
So transitioning to Ahmedabad, we
are located in Western India in the state of Gujarat.
We are the seventh largest city in the country
with a population of 7 million, an area
of roughly 500 square kilometers,
and very high density.
As you can see in this map, Ahmedabad City
is divided into East and West Ahmedabad
by the river Sabarmati.
We also have an interesting history.
It's also the land of Mahatma Gandhi
and the location of many freedom movements.
A couple of years ago, Ahmedabad was also
awarded the World Heritage City status.
But like all other Indian cities,
Ahmedabad also faces challenges of high density
and increasing demand for transport.
So let's have a quick look at the transport
profile of Ahmedabad.
So a large share of the population
still commutes by walking, cycling, and public transport,
as you can see the data.
But these are really--
really, a lot of this population is informal workers
or low-income residents who cannot afford motorized means
of transport.
So the high income population generally prefers
private transport.
The share of two wheelers in Ahmedabad quite high and buses
hold a share of 12%.

So recently, the city has initiated several transport
actions, including adding infrastructure shared cycling.
But as you can see the photo on the bottom left,
it's the bus rapid transit system,
which has been growing rapidly and it's
very good public transport infrastructure.
But the length still does not cover the entire city.
In 2022, Ahmedabad also started its first metro network,
and currently, public transport trips.
Those serve only 12%.
It's growing.
But just to say that this growth in public transport
is far outpaced by the growth in private vehicle use
and there's a growing number of cars on the roads,
especially SUVs.
And there's an aspiration to own a vehicle.
It's like a status thing to own a car,
and therefore it is not cool to travel by buses.
And that is also an issue of last-mile connectivity.
So if you get down from the BRT stop, you have to walk,
and often the walking infrastructure is not good.
It is unsafe to walk on the roads, and in some summers,
it gets very hot.
And for all these reasons, BRT has failed to attract users
from private transport.
Ahmedabad City now also has over 150 buses which are electric.
And this has come from national funding.
The central government has an initiative
called FAME to increase adoption of electric vehicles in India.
And so from this funding, we've got several buses operational
and the ambition is quite high to electrify
all public transport in Ahmedabad in the coming years.
So in terms of impacts, where are we?
Well, we haven't really increased the share of users
for public transport.
And as I mentioned, the people who are using public transport
are either shifting from the older bus
network to BRT, or to the metro, or they're
shifting from three wheelers to the public transport.
But we don't have evidence to show
that it's really the private transport
users that have shifted.
Again, the supply side policies have not
been complemented by any disincentive for using cars.
Parking charges remain quite low and the current vehicle tax
is a one-time tax.
So there is really no disincentive for people
to continue to get out of their cars.
Air quality and congestion continue
to remain major problems.

And this has-- so as I said, this growth
has offset the gains in efficiency,
the introduction of electric vehicles,
and the addition of the public transport network.
And this does come down to the issues of local capacity
and resources, as I said, and to the governance.
There's also studies which show that the public transport
fares remain quite high for low income residents.
And so the equity impacts of this public transport network
are still not well understood.
But just in terms of mitigation, it's going to be challenging.
So while we accept that there will
be a growth in trips, and people have
to, because there's also the economic issues.
People have to access their jobs,
people have to access education, people
have to access health care.
And therefore, we feel that probably cities in South Asia
need to look at mitigation, both from the aspect of development
as well as CO2 emissions.
And just in terms of the way forward,
while there are challenges, like I said,
there are a lot of local benefits to implementing
mitigation action.
And therefore, ambitious mitigation action
can go hand in hand with local sustainable development
policies.
But for that, we need to scale up our level of ambition.
That is a city-wide net-zero target,
but it's not tied into sectoral policies.
We're still looking at silos in terms of implementation.
So we need integrated action, a city-wide strategy
that is coordinated across levels of government,
which needs significant investments in public transport
infrastructure.
So small scale pilots, incremental changes
are not going to get us there.
So really it's a question of resources.
And finally, we do need measures to discourage private vehicle
use because without that, it's going
to be very difficult to achieve ambitious mitigation.
So I'll stop here and Thank you very much for listening.
If you have any questions, please email me.
Thank you so much.
