
ROB STONER: I'm Robert Stoner, the deputy director for Science
and Technology at the MIT Energy Initiative,
which is the Center for Energy Research at MIT,
and has been for more than 15 years.
The sole reason the Energy Initiative, which
we call MITEI, exists is to accelerate the transition
to an equitable decarbonized global economy.
Our goal is to help find and deploy
solutions through applied and fundamental research
in science, technology and policy, and through outreach
to policymakers around the world to inform
government decision-making.
That's an enormous field of endeavor,
spanning everything from green e-fuel production
to carbon capture, from nuclear fusion to battery storage,
from grid modernization to ultra-low-cost solar power,
from energy poverty to low-carbon economic
development, from energy-efficient buildings
to decarbonized transportation, from climate science to climate
diplomacy, and everything in between.
We've also helped to launch over 100 green tech startups.
MITEI also hosts a number of important research centers
and programs that, together, enable
us to broaden our impact in aspects of the energy
transition, such as climate and the environment
and social impacts at home and abroad.
They include the developing-world-oriented Tata
Center for Technology and Design,
the Global Commission to End Energy Poverty, GCEEP,
the Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research,
CEEPR, and the Joint Program on the Science and Policy
of Global Change, an important nexus at MIT for climate change
research.
We've mobilized close to a billion dollars
for energy research over the years.
And this comes from three sources--
government programs from the Department of Energy,
primarily ARPA-E and other programs from the DOE,
as well as agencies and departments
throughout the government, and industrial sponsors,
companies of all kinds who have a stake in accelerating
the development of new low-carbon technologies
and ideas, and finally, philanthropists, whose funds
are crucial for our education, policy and outreach work,
and also enable us to fund promising research
that government sources and companies may find too risky.
All three are important, and all three work together.
The sorts of companies we work with come from many industries.
They include electricity utilities, car companies,
electronics companies, and even large startup companies,
like Commonwealth Fusion Systems, who
are trying to bring important new technologies to the market,
and so-called traditional energy companies
that make bio and fossil fuels.
They want to work with us because they
need help to develop new technologies that
align with their long-term business strategies,
and they want to know what we think
about how these and other technologies will compete
in the market as the world rebuilds its energy
infrastructure, sources of demand change,
and markets reorganize.
We want to work with them not just because they provide us
with a significant portion of our funding,
but because we want to enable their transition
to a zero-carbon future.
And we recognize that, to get there quickly,
we'll need their expertise, access to capital,
and enormous scale.

Look, it isn't always a comfortable relationship.
It isn't lost on us that some of these companies
will have to get out of their present lines of business,
and also that the funds several are spending
on research at MIT, in some cases,
comes from the sale of fossil fuels.
But our calculation is that we will
get to where we need to be quicker if we work together
to create low-carbon energy technologies for the future,
technologies that, you have to remember,
must be deployed within just a few decades, globally
and on an economic scale roughly equivalent
to the entire global GDP.
That's a scale and pace that energy startups alone
would struggle to achieve.
It's a pragmatic calculation that
says if our objective is to drive global emissions rapidly
to zero, then it's necessary to engage
with some of the largest, most polluting companies
in the world.
Thanks to the heroic policymaking efforts
of the Biden administration over the past two years,
we've entered a new phase of the battle
to decarbonize the global economy.
Suddenly, the discussion has shifted
from early-stage discovery to implementation
to actually building the new low-carbon system.
It's hard to overstate the importance of the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction Act, which together
will deploy billions of US taxpayer funds
to demonstrate and build low-carbon infrastructure
over the next decade.
And in helping to drive down the costs
and accelerate the development of new technologies,
these coordinated policies will also
accelerate global decarbonization efforts.
Anticipating this shift, MITEI launched in 2021
the Future Energy Systems Center.
This new, also industry-supported consortium
uses advanced modeling and analysis techniques
both to guide companies in their responses to the rapidly
changing energy landscape, but also
to help MIT researchers identify unmet technology and policy
needs and to recalibrate their ongoing research programs
in response to those things.
It's an incredibly interesting and exciting time
to be involved with energy, and we look forward at MITEI
to staying at the forefront of the global transition
as the pace quickens.
Thank you very much.