PRIYANKA DESOUZA: Hi, everybody.
Today, I'm going to be talking to you about air pollution.
So why air pollution, air pollution
is one of the world's biggest environmental health risks.
Air pollution has been estimated to be associated
with about 7 million premature deaths every year worldwide.
There are many connections between air pollution
and climate change, many sources that emit greenhouse gases also
emit air pollutants such as fine particulate matter in addition
with increasing with climate change
we're seeing an increase in wildfires.
Wildfires are becoming a key source of air pollution,
especially in countries like the United States.
Now, what does the global distribution
of air pollution look like, so air pollution comprises
of multiple pollutants but the pollutant that
has been shown to matter most when it comes to the health
impacts is fine particulate matter, also known as PM 2.5.
What is PM 2.5, it is the mass concentration
of particles having diameters less than 2.5 micrometers.
Just to give you a sense of how small
that is, the diameter of a strand of hair
is 70 micrometers, so these are really, really tiny
particles, and the problem with these particles
is that they're so small that they
can enter our respiratory system and impact our lungs et cetera
and cause all kinds of problems.
In addition to being responsible for premature mortality,
air pollution is also responsible for a wide array
of other health effects, such as such
as cardiovascular disease, neurological disorders,
the list just goes on.
The image on the right shows the global distribution of PM 2.5,
and as you can see the highest concentrations of PM 2.5
are really to be found in the global South.

Now, what I'm going to be talking to you today
is basically the kind of data that we have access to,
to understand trends PM 2.5 levels.
So this image is taken from an organization called
Open AQ, which aggregates all publicly available air
pollution data sources across the world.
It then provides it to users in the same format.
So that users can very easily access data through open AQ,
compare air pollution levels in different cities,
look at air pollution trends very, very easily.
So this map shows publicly available official air quality
data reported by countries around the world.
And as you can see there are huge gaps
in air pollution data in many cities in the Global South.
This is problematic because it is precisely in these cities
that air pollution levels are highest.
We really need access to air pollution data here
in order to develop effective air pollution management plans.
So why are there so few air quality monitors
in the global South, well the image on the left
is a reference or a regulatory equality monitor such as one
operated by a regulatory agency like the US Environmental
Protection Agency.
These monitors are extremely expensive,
they can cost between 150 to 200,000 USD,
and they're as big as a house.
Moreover, they require technical expertise to operate.
Now, although the cost of these monitors are extremely high,
the research has shown that because the US has deployed
these monitors, and because these monitors have been used
effectively to enforce the National Ambient Air Quality
Standards across the US, those enforcement actions
have actually resulted in dramatic decreases in air
pollution levels across the US.
These decreases have actually saved hundreds and thousands
of lives over time, and therefore, deploying
these monitors has been extremely cost effective.
However, the high upfront costs and the requirement
of technical expertise to operate these monitors
has meant that many countries in the global South
still have not made that investment in these monitors.
In lieu of these monitors many researchers
and even some governments have been
exploring other technologies to fill in air pollution data
gaps.
The image on the right of the screen
shows a low cost air quality monitor
that I deployed when I worked at UN Environment in schools
around Nairobi.
The UN Environment had been given the mandate in 2014
to help countries develop air pollution management
plans because of the large data gaps UN Environment was
considering using low cost sensors to fill in these data
gaps.
Now although these low cost sensors
may look very attractive, they are much lower
cost than reference monitors, they
can cost only a few few hundred a few thousand dollars.
The problem with these monitors is
that they're not very accurate, and the data
needs to be corrected or calibrated in order
for this data to be used effectively to develop
air pollution management plans.
And this is an active research area,
many, many scientists are really working on how do we
use these monitors effectively.

Now there is a rhetoric around using low cost air quality
monitors that scientists really need to invest in figuring out
how to use this technology effectively, because the lower
cost of these devices will allow the public
to become important air quality monitoring players,
it will lead to the democratization of air
pollution data, it will lead to growing awareness,
and increase in citizen science projects, all of which sound
like wonderful things.
However, I will say that in the United States
we looked at the distribution of one of the most widely
used, low cost air quality monitors called the PurpleAir.
An image of a PurpleAir monitor that
was taken from the PurpleAir website is on the right.
There are about 17,000 of these PurpleAir monitors
currently deployed by community groups,
by citizens, by the public, by scientists across the US.
So there are 17,000 of these monitors
and there are only about 6,000 US EPA PM 2.5 monitoring
instruments.
Those numbers are always mind boggling to me.
So we looked at where these low cost air quality monitors were
being deployed, we wondered whether they
were being deployed in minority communities
where we know that air pollution levels tend to be the highest,
we wanted to know if these monitors were deployed
in communities with higher air pollution levels
than those with US EPA monitors.
We basically wanted to know who was using these devices,
and unfortunately, we found that most of these monitors
were being deployed in more privileged communities, more
white, more educated, with actually
lower annual average PM 2.5 levels than communities
with US EPA monitors.
And this made us realize that if low cost sensors are going
to fulfill their potential of democratizing air pollution
data and allowing for citizen science work to be done,
we need policies to ensure that communities who most need them
can have access to this technology.
So just a caveat, when we think about the use of low cost air
quality monitors to fill in the gaps.
Another technology that is used to fill in air pollution gaps,
data gaps, is satellite data.
The image on the left shows a global picture of satellite
derived PM 2.5 concentrations.
If you look at this image, you may wonder,
well we have data for the world, what
are you talking about what are you talking about when it comes
to air pollution data gaps.
Well, the thing is that satellites don't actually
measure PM 2.5, they measure another quantity
called as the aerosol optical depth,
or the amount of light scattered and absorbed by particles
as it passes through the atmosphere.
In order to get from AOD or aerosol optical depth to PM
2.5, scientists use models to find out how much of that
scattering of aerosols happens at the surface of the Earth
where we breathe, and then they use data
from ground based reference monitors
to calibrate this surface scattering coefficient.
Now because most of these ground based
monitors used in this calibration
process and the global note, we know
that there are huge uncertainties
in satellite derived PM 2.5 estimates in the global South.
And indeed, although this data is very, very useful
for evaluating regional trends in countries
in the global South, the high uncertainty in these estimates
can make it difficult to do intra urban analysis of air
pollution in cities such as Nairobi and Kenya et cetera.
And therefore, we do need ground based monitors
in cities in the Global South to get better satellite
derived PM 2.5 estimates.
Now I'm going to end with this, we
have effective data repositories,
we have effective maps of air pollution data
from satellites, from satellite instruments,
from regulatory monitors, from low cost sensors.

However, we do not have data repositories of data collected
in scientific studies, and because we
don't have these data infrastructures to make
this data available or accessible,
it is easy to overlook the very important scientific work being
done by scientists in the global South.
I did a review of air pollution studies done in Kenya
and have found that since the early 1980s,
there have actually been 33 studies done evaluating
air pollution trends in the country.
And yes, many of these studies had limited time frames,
use different instruments, most of them occurred in Nairobi,
and yet these studies provided consistent insights
on air pollution sources in the country.
And indeed, these insights made it clear
what steps needed to be taken to reduce air pollution
levels in Kenya.
And so I will leave you with this,
as we do more research in air pollution,
and come up with new ways to collect air pollution data
and understand it, we need to pair that work with work
on creating data infrastructures to allow the data that we
collect to be actionable and to be meaningful to reduce air
pollution levels in parts of the world that really are suffering
and are burdened by this important environmental health
risk.