JANELLE KNOX HAYES: Hello my name is Janelle Knox Hayes
and I'm a professor in the Department of Urban Studies
and Planning.
This video is about pathway one, which is integrating mitigation
and adaptation.
Urban decision makers need to integrate efforts
to mitigate the causes of climate change, mitigation,
and respond to changing climatic conditions, adaptation,
for a global transition to a low emissions
economy and a resilient world.
Actions that promote both goals provide win-win solutions.
A better understanding of mitigation and adaptation
synergies can reveal greater opportunities for urban areas.
For example, strategies that reduce the urban heat island
effect, improve air quality, increase resource efficiency
and the built environment and energy systems,
and enhance carbon storage related
to land use and urban forestry are
likely to contribute to greenhouse gas emissions
reductions, while improving a city's resilience.
Examining adaptation and mitigation in an integrated
manner is considered particularly important
at the city scale.
This is because the benefits of integration of the two policies
can best be seen at the city level.
Additionally, the integration of mitigation and adaptation
has the potential to reduce the cost of emissions
that influence urban climates.
And adaptation helps cities prepare
for both slow onset and extreme events of climate change.
Especially in urban areas, integrated solutions
can help avoid maladaptation and realize sustainable development
goals, SDGs.
Integrating mitigation and adaptation
deserves the highest priority in urban planning, urban design
and urban architecture.
A portfolio of approaches is available,
including engineering solutions, ecosystem
based adaptation, energy policies, and social programs.
Though mitigation and adaptation policies have different goals
and opportunities for implementation,
many drivers of mitigation and adaptation are common
and solutions can be interrelated.
Evidence shows that broad scale, holistic analysis
and proactive planning can strengthen synergies, improve
cost effectiveness, avoid conflicts,
and help manage trade offs.
The selection of specific adaptation and mitigation
measures should be made in the context
of the current resources and technical means
of a city, the needs of its citizens, and the SDGs.
Taking the local context of each city into account
is necessary in order to choose integrated actions that result
in the greatest benefits.
Opportunities and challenges for integrating mitigation
and adaptation measures arise at all stages
of planning, from initial assessment
to implementation, monitoring, and evaluation.
The goal is decision making for integrated climate change
management in cities.
A city's capacity to undertake integrated actions
for climate change mitigation and adaptation
is determined by structural conditions that can either
provide the necessary opportunities,
or to the contrary, impede and hinder integrated climate
change action.
Resources and technical means are at city's disposal
to overcome these barriers and better manage
climate change challenges in an integrated manner.