
PROFESSOR: Pathway 4 represents a focus
on disadvantaged populations.
The need of the most disadvantaged and vulnerable
residents should be addressed in climate change
planning and action.
The urban poor, seniors, women, the unrepresented,
members of the LGBTQ-Plus community, recent immigrants,
and otherwise marginal populations most often
face the greatest risks due to climate change.
Fostering greater equity and justice within climate action
increases a city's capacity to respond to climate change
and improves human well-being, social capital,
and related opportunities for sustainable social and economic
development.
A useful example illustrating climate justice at work
to address the needs of disadvantaged communities
is the New York State Climate Leadership and Community
Protection Act, commonly known for its acronym as the CLCPA.
Building on the success of the historic 2014 People's Climate
March, the largest and most diverse
climate mobilization on record, where over 400,000 participants
marched through the streets of New York City to advocate
for global action against climate change,
organizations across New York State
launched a coalition called NY Renews.
They brought together environmental justice leaders,
environmental protection advocates, labor movements,
academics, and many others to create
the most ambitious climate change legislation of its kind.
Adopted in 2019, the CLCPA seeks to accomplish
100% zero emission electricity by 2040,
a reduction of at least 85% of greenhouse gases
below 1990 levels by 2050, and mandates
that 35% of all statewide savings
need to be reinvested in disadvantaged communities
on the following projects--
clean energy and energy efficiency programs,
projects or investments in the areas
of housing, workforce development, pollution
reduction, low-income energy assistance, energy,
transportation, and economic development.
First, the definition of disadvantaged communities
has been created by a climate justice working group
to reflect the history of these communities in their own terms,
through their own voices, and to act upon their own priorities.
And second, the law created a Climate Action Council,
at 22-member committee that is responsible for developing
a scoping plan to achieve emission reductions
and guarantee the needs of disadvantaged communities.
Thanks to groups like the New York City Environmental Justice
Alliance and its member organizations,
including UPROSE, [SPANISH],, The Point, [SPANISH],,
Youth Ministries for Peace and Justice,
the Morningside Heights West Harlem Sanitation Coalition,
GOALS, and many others, New York State
is leading the fight for environmental
and climate justice.