LESLIE: [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH] Good afternoon.
I'm Leslie and I'm Mashpee Wampanoag.
It's really nice to talk to you guys about rewilding today.
As Janelle mentioned, I am the co-founder
of the first Indigenous land conservation organization east
of the Mississippi.
We are about 12 years old and growing like crazy.
In fact, many of you will be on site next Saturday
on a site scout at our largest piece of land
that we've been able to put into conservation called Muddy Pond,
or the Wampanoag common lands.
32 acres of pine barren beauty.
And I'm looking forward to it.
I also sit on the advisory board for the Conservation Law
Foundation, or CLF, for the state of Massachusetts.
And I help to promote healthy environments for all people
by sitting on that board.
I speak and represent an Indigenous group,
so I look with an eye toward traditional ecological
knowledge and the preservation of cultural sites.
So without further ado, I'm going
to jump into our topic for today,
rewilding from Indigenous perspectives.
It's evidently clear that human impact to our natural world
has harmed, degraded, eroded, polluted, and toxified her
to the point of devastation to our lands and waters,
threatening our existences and all species,
I believe, beyond what we ever imagined.
Climate change destruction and pollution
are at levels far higher and moving at rates
far faster than scientists could have
predicted, even 50 years ago.
And while the science was telling us
that radical change had to happen,
nothing happened for decades, leaving
an environmental condition in ruin.
It is in the Haudenosaunee Confederacy teachings that
say we are a part of everything that is beneath us,
above us, and around us.
Our past is our present, our present is our future,
and our future is seven generations past and present.
The Haudenosaunee are the people of the longhouse.
The Confederacy is made up of the Mohawks, the Oneidas,
the Onondagas, Cayugas, and the Senecas,
and was intended as a way to unite the nations
and create a peaceful means of decision making.
This teaching of we are part of everything
has always resonated with Indigenous cultures
because it represents the power of equality and balance,
removing the threats of vertical power
structures, ones that invite discord, animosity,
and turmoil.
And also reminding us of the value and importance
of lateral leadership models.

As with the Haudenosaunee, and many tribes across the country,
we divide groups of related people, or families,
into clans.
Like the Haudenosaunee Confederacy,
we trace our clans through the maternal line.
In our Wampanoag culture, our family clans
are symbolized by animals from the three Earth elements
of land, water, and air.
Currently, we have eight clans, the bear, eagle, rabbit, otter,
turtle, beaver, eel, and deer.
I am a member of the Wampanoag eel clan,
so it comes naturally to me to be committed to conserving
and protecting water.

It was Rachel Carson in Silent Spring
who said mankind has gone very far into an artificial world
of his own creation.
He has sought to insulate himself with steel and concrete
from the realities of earth and water
as he goes farther and farther into experiments
for the destruction of himself and his world.
In contemplating the exceeding beauty of the Earth,
there is symbolic, as well as actual beauty
in the migration of birds, in the ebb and flow of the tides,
in the folded bud ready for the spring.
There is something infinitely healing in these repeated
refrains of nature, the assurance
that dawn comes after night, and spring after winter.
Carson's passionate concern in Silent Spring
was with the future of the planet and all life on Earth.
She calls for humans to act responsibly, carefully,
and as stewards of the living Earth.
Silent Spring inspired the modern environmental movement.
However, the conservation movement
from the early 20th century was different
from the environmental movement of the late 20th century.
It became more apparent after 1950.
These movements were also different from the preservation
movement.
Conservation was more in line with scientific planning
of the use of natural resources, while preservation involved
keeping natural areas pristine and wild,
and lending itself to the more recent rewilding concept.

Rewilding has been a topic of discussion in the conservation
movement in the US for 40 plus years and in Europe
for far longer than that.
However, the conservation environmental
and preservation movements paved a way
for what was considered a radical move to rewilding,
with early criticism accusing it of dividing
humans and non-humans.
And while this movement tries to align with many Indigenous
philosophies and practices, it's been historically
non-indigenous, and therefore blindly
marginalizes native people.
By its very nature, as a movement
about reconnecting to place, rooting oneself and returning
to pre-industrial solutions, practitioners
often unknowingly erase, ignore, or overlook
important traditional knowledge and vital histories,
[? supporting ?] real community and environmental healing.
This approach of no human contact or impact
is based in a culture of white imperialism and privilege,
and thus the reason why many Indigenous groups and allies
see it differently.
In popular culture, rewilding is meant
to restore landscapes that were damaged by people, ultimately
removing human restoration interventions
from the landscape once the land has recovered enough for nature
to flourish on its own.
What began in the US in the 1980s as an approach
to ecological restoration called rewilding
has been viewed by many Indigenous environmentalists
and experts as a form of environmental colonialism.
And it is in this settler mindset
where the confusion begins.
We found in the definition by leading Western scientists that
rewilding concerned safeguarding and restoring
native biodiversity through large scale
interconnected networks of reserves established primarily
to protect interacting keystone species
and their trophic relationships.
That it fostered a disregard for Indigenous culture
and traditional ecological knowledge,
a knowledge based in ancient wisdom
passed down through generations of people living
in relationship, in kinship, to land and water.
The kind of human relation to the land and water that
has an always will be in balance and beneficial
for all living creatures.
I have a question for the class.
Do you know what a keystone species is and are?
I can't see you guys, but.
Keystone species are those which have extremely high impact
on a particular ecosystem relative to its population.
These species are critical for the overall structure
and function of an ecosystem.
Keystone is often a dominant predator
whose removal allows a prey population to explode
and often decreases the overall diversity.
Keystone species hold together the complex web
of relationships in an ecosystem.
They can be animals, plants, or microorganisms.
Some really good examples are in the photos you see here.
Starfish, sea otters, wolves, and even elephants.

It has been cited that Indigenous land management
practices globally managed lands storing 17%
and higher of the world's forest carbon and harbor
more biodiversity than the world's protected areas.
Protecting Indigenous peoples' and local communities' rights
to their lands and forests has the potential
to make a significant contribution to that solution.
A report from the Rights and Resources Initiative Woods Hole
Research Center, WRI, and Environmental Defense funds
show that Indigenous peoples and local communities
worldwide manage massive amounts of carbon
in the trees and soil in all of their forests, at least 293,061
million metric tons.
Science estimates that by managing the world's land more
sustainably, such as protecting forests and investing
in reforestation, we could achieve up
to 37% of emissions reductions necessary to limit
the global rise in temperature to two degrees Celsius by 2030.
It was Michael Soulé, an American biologist,
who brought forward and developed
an ecological restoration approach of rewilding
in the mid 1990s.
He surmised that large carnivores
need big, wild, roadless areas of habitat for security
from humans and to fulfill their survival needs.
Very few protected areas in North America,
or anywhere in the world, are large enough
to stand alone as habitats.
Therefore, core habitats need to be
linked by wildlife movement corridors or landscape
permeability.
Thus, Soulé's concept of the three C's of rewilding
were carnivores, cores, and connectivity.
What was most disturbingly missing, though,
from this earlier rewilding theory and concept
was Indigenous knowledge and apparent widespread absence
of any historic knowledge of traditional tenure
on these lands.
And the demise of Native ecological systems,
as Winona LaDuke [INAUDIBLE] an environmental activist,
so fervently describes in her book, All our Relations,
Native Struggles for Land and Life.
More recent data cites that the reintroduction
of native species to be left alone to heal and thrive
without human interaction comes with both benefits and risks.
According to the IUCN, and that is the International
Union for Conservation of Nature, which is the world's
largest and most diverse environmental network,
a misunderstanding of rewilding is
that various applications of the rewilding concept applications
have harmed communities and biodiversity,
and actually threaten to undermine the approach
altogether.
Now this has become of great concern to Native communities
as this notion of reversing biodiversity loss to create
wild spaces and landscapes can appear
somewhat dismissive, and quite frankly,
a form of continued erasure of Indigenous cultures.
Essentially, poorly or mismanaged rewilding
carries risks for both biodiversity and local people.
The idea of allowing nature to reclaim
areas that are no longer under human management or impact
has garnered quite a bit of attention
in the conservation movement as an optimistic, proactive
approach to conservation.
Well-intentioned governments, NGOs, communities,
and individuals are more frequently adopting
rewilding strategies, but of major concern
is in the basic principles which are, in many cases,
inconsistently defined and often misrepresented
and also misapplied.

Wilderness movement leader Bob Marshall
feels that there's an unfortunate misunderstanding,
which is that the wilderness idea somehow erases Indigenous
people from the landscape.
And instead, he states, that the idea of wilderness
was a reaction against the modern new order
of environmental threat.
It was certainly not at variance with the Indigenous
people or their sustainable lifeways, which, in fact,
wilderness literature often romanticizes.
So are these conflicting or intersecting
perspectives and beliefs on the human-nature relationship?
When concepts and applications of rewilding
are well informed, mindful, including the local Indigenous
knowledge or native science, then we
agree that rewilding can certainly be well applied.
What would this take?
Preserving and learning from traditional knowledge, culture,
and language is a necessary and vital contribution
to a restorative culture.
We learn from traditional place-based knowledge
everywhere, also in western culture.
Transformative innovation for a regenerative culture is also
about asking ourselves, how do we reindigenize and adapt
to place or home while maintaining planetary awareness
and global collaboration among all of humanity?
In our environmental management practices,
we work with natural ecosystems for a holistic plan
of sustainability and revitalization,
always keeping the natural world at the forefront.
But also understanding the grave losses
that we've seen in these habitats.
So we consistently seek to stabilize them.
We work to protect, revitalize, and restore native plant
species to reinvigorate those systems that
have kept the land and water in balance for millennia.
For many Indigenous cultures, to address the false separation
between nature and culture requires
us to acknowledge that learning from human ingenuity
and long-term adaptations to particular environments
is also learning from nature.
Among Indigenous peoples, there is a long tradition
of solving human problems by learning from other species,
and from the wider natural processes in which we are part.

Even in the developed world, much
of the traditional knowledge of how
to meet needs within the limits of biologically
regenerative resources of the region
was still predominant only 150 years ago.
If we revalue what that knowledge and Indigenous
wisdom holds for us, we can recover much of it
and blend Indigenous wisdom in creative ways
with the best of modern technology and science.
I've presented on how important it
is to have Indigenous knowledges and communities involved
in matters of the environment as it simply
doesn't make any sense to exclude these ancient wisdoms.
And moreover is a continued expression
of dismissal and erasure of our existence, our culture,
our lives.
IUCN has a long history of working with Indigenous peoples
both to promote recognition of our rights at policy level
and to support their conservation
activities on the ground.
They've endorsed the United Nations Declaration
on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples in 2008
and regularly monitor and report on its contributions
to the implementation of the Declaration.
IUCN resolutions and field-based work
emphasize Indigenous Peoples' rights to the lands,
territories, and natural resources
they have been traditionally owned, occupied, and used,
and the need to ensure the full and effective participation
of Indigenous peoples.
So why is rewilding important?
It's no doubt that intentions and activities that
support the healing and regeneration
of our natural world is by far the most important goal
in saving our planet.
However, Indigenous cultures across the globe
understand what rewilding is, as this is
how we've lived for millennia.
But if you recall, I've mentioned
in numerous forums there are no words in Indigenous languages
for rewilding.
And by many interpretations came--
or can refer to biases of Native peoples
in our original instruction.
There are no primitive teachings.
These are not primitive teachings
to be considered only relics of the past,
but instead are sophisticated expressions of generations
of the co-evolution of Indigenous
peoples within ecosystems we've inhabited.
Rewilding is our approach to land
culture, which is rooted in traditional principles
of sustainability in land or place-based life practices,
life-preserving practices that have taken place
for thousands of years.