
BARBARA NORMAN: Hello.
It's Barbara Norman here.
I'm a professor of urban and regional planning
at the University of Canberra and a visiting fellow
with the Australian National University
in Canberra, our national capital in Australia.
Great pleasure to be here.
Today, I'll give you a short presentation
on planning for climate change, outlining 10 essential actions.
This is really a summary of my most recent book, called
Urban Planning for Climate Change,
published in November 2022, so quite recently.
Just to begin with, I think it's very important
to really appreciate, as I'm sure you do--
but just to emphasize that there are limits to adaptation.
When we say planning for climate change,
we're very much addressing two things--
one, reducing the emissions that are created
by our urban and built environment,
and on the other hand, and hopefully at the same time,
designing and building in a way which will adapt to the impacts
already built in of climate change.
So more resilient cities and towns,
both in our big capital cities, right
through to our regional centers, inland and coastal.
As I say quickly here, islands will become submerged,
whether that's the Pacific region or many other parts
around the world; inland regions too hot to live,
and certainly that's being experienced, in the United
States, in Australia, and throughout the Asia-Pacific;
and regions vulnerable to high-fire risk
and extreme weather events.
And depending on where you are coming from the world,
you will have probably been exposed to either that
or know someone who has.
So we are now living this experience.
It's not something of the future.
Something that we need to be planning for now,
and action required.
And very much, the discussion is moving, really,
from the policy framework, if you like--
firstly, the science, and then the policy development--
to working out what the solutions are,
what the actions should be.
And a significant step recently was the IPCC Sixth report
on adaptation in 2022, which had this graphic here
of climate-resilient development.
And you can go through the details
later with this presentation, but you can just
follow the green.
There is a clear pathway for having
a more resilient urban future--
with that, a healthier future, not only for the planet,
but for people.
And another one, which is really going the other way, which
is not helpful to either.
But I think the really key point is
that if we do take that greener pathway,
that more resilient pathway, there could
be multiple benefits for all.

We also have to face, now and in the future,
climate-induced resettlement.
This is a photo of some very significant flooding that we've
had in my country, in Australia, during 2022, and continuing,
in fact, right now.
And I know that that has also happened
in many parts of the world.

Only two years ago here, we had extreme fires that wiped out
a number of communities.
So we've gone from one extreme to the other.
I know that places like California have, too.
And places like India have had extreme heat.
So it's something that we need to be working
together on, but very much understanding
that there are limits to adaptation,
and there will also be climate-induced resettlement
that we need to plan for.
And very significant numbers are involved there,
if you have a look at some of the recent estimates
by the World Bank and the OECD.
So just briefly-- and you can have a look at my book
if your library gets it in, for example--
but these are the 10 key actions that I outline.
There's a kind of summary table towards the end of the book.
Firstly, and it seems obvious, doesn't it--
map the climate risks and overlay
on existing and future urban zones
to identify the hot spots.
Well, it does seem obvious, but it doesn't happen particularly
well.
So I started here because not only
do we need to do this much better,
but we also need to make sure it's freely accessible,
that it's publicly accessible, and that the data can be shared
equitably to all people in all communities
so they can make more informed decisions.
An inclusive platform about carbon
neutral development and adaptation options.
The most frequent question to me is, what can we do,
or how can we do things?
And that's been a very significant change
in the community discussion.
It's not a skepticism so much about the science,
but more about what are the options for the future.
We need to be exploring a much wider range of tools,
such as scenario planning for the future.
And here's a photo I took of a very favorite community of mine
in coastal Australia.
And it was severely impacted by the fires in 2019-20.
Very hot fires, as you can see by the ash here.
But really, the key point here is
that point 4, which is mandatory consideration
of natural disaster and climate risks in all land
use planning decisions in the future, both new development
and redevelopment.
No longer a discretionary guideline,
but something that has to happen.
Just like we look at water quality,
we need to look at climate risk in the future.
Adopting nature-based solutions across the built environment
as a priority in everything we do.
And so what do I mean by that?
Well, not putting up concrete seawalls,
but rather restoring coastal landscapes,
investing in replanting mangroves,
and working with nature as opposed
to trying to defend ourselves against nature.
Much more innovative and creative solutions.
And what that requires, in point 6,
is collaboration between urban planners, climate scientists,
governance, participation processes,
and working together to build what I have framed here
as climate-resilient plans.

Providing affordable and accessible training--
and this MOOC would be part of that--
to a much wider community, but also
not just students of the future and planners of the future,
but also, community leaders need to be involved,
right across the world.
And also, understanding that we're not
dealing with just one risk.
We're dealing with a cumulative set of risks.
Take, for example, some regions in the world that
have experienced severe floods, severe fires, and COVID only
in the last three years.
And that's left some vulnerable communities
absolutely exhausted.
A more integrated approach and involving our First Nations
people is critical.
And I think we're starting to understand that better,
but we need to do much, much more.
And I just put an example up here with a link
to you, if you're interested in, the Sea Country plans
of the First Nations people of Australia,
the Aboriginal people.
And rather than looking at catchments inland, cities,
and then coast, they really look at it
as a continuum, one integrated ecosystem,
and leads to a more holistic approach, if you like,
to planning for climate change.
Wider considerations are always important.
And when we're looking at our solutions
around planning for climate change,
we need to be looking at the cultural history
and the context, what leadership is involved,
what regulation and enforcement is in there, what governance
approaches are there.
We need to be looking at longer-term planning and not
just short-term horizons.
And looking at--
I put here COVID-19 and localization--
capitalizing, if you like, on a much deeper appreciation
of our local areas and our neighborhoods that
came from all the lockdowns we experienced through COVID,
and I think a deeper appreciation
of what can be done in planning for climate change
and the benefits that can bring to all people
in your community.
Thank you for listening.
Here's just a reference to my last two books,
Sustainable Pathways for Our Cities and Regions, 2018,
and Urban Planning for Climate Change in 2022,
and some contact details.
I wish you well in this program.
It's really important.
And I hope you go very well in your studies.
Thank you.