
ALBERTO INNOCENTI: Good afternoon to everyone.
I'm Alberto Innocenti.
I'm assistant professor at the University of Southern Denmark.
And I'm part of the UNESCO Chair of Urban Resilience.
Today we're going to talk about climate extreme
events and the cloudburst plan of Copenhagen.
So briefly today, we will introduce
a bit of what is climate change or some perspective on that
and some type of extreme events.

We're going to just do a brief introduction.
And then we will move to the case of Copenhagen,
so in which we will check--
in which we will go into the moment of understanding when
the city of Copenhagen decided to take action
against climate change, the plan, and some of the solution
we will get to.
So, as I said, we will start with climate change
and extreme events.
And probably many of you already saw this picture
from The Economist.
It's a very famous visualization of how
the temperature, of the average temperature per year
change in the last centuries.
So as far as we know as a researcher,
we have mainly data from the last centuries.
And we can see with this visualization
how the temperature changed in cities and in the planet.
So year by year is warmer and warmer.
And what happened when is that warmer,
they happen a lot of things.
It creates a lot of type of events, extreme events,
in cities, in territories, so far so.
So but what is climate change?
If we take the definition of IPCC,
so the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, defined
climate change as a change of climate
attributed to directly or indirectly human activities,
that those human activities are altering the composition
of the global atmospheres.
And when those activities are altering
the global atmospheres, we have, for example, a warming problem.
And when we get warmer, we increase the intensity
and the frequency of events, natural events.
They are already there, but we increase
the power, the frequency, and the intensity.
In the next slides, we will go through some of these climate
extreme events.
They are not all related to cities.
But the idea is just that I want to give you
just a brief overview on that.
And then we will end up to understand
what is mitigation and adaptation, so the two
ways to counteract, to fight against climate change.
So here is a pretty famous image,
is the flooding that there was after the Katrina
hurricane in New Orleans in the US in 2005,
is one of the problems that lead from climate change, climate
change and these extreme events.
So the city was flooded from a hurricane.
So that was just not the hurricane, but the cyclone.
But there was also an extreme rainfall.
Another type of climate event can be completely the opposite,
so passing from too much water to no water at all.
I don't know if you already know,
but it's a pretty famous case that is day zero Cape Town.
So for more than three years, from 2015 to 2017,
never rained once in those days.
And slowly they were ending the storage of water.
And they were arriving to the day zero.
So it was built up from the municipality
and from the region a campaign to sensibilize
the creative awareness in between the people
in order to then start with the massive regulation
so people couldn't use water as it wants.
There were strict regulations in the use of water
because they were reaching the day zero that Cape Town would
be without water.
So, fortunately, they didn't get to that day.
But, as we can see, climate change is very unpredictable.
And the effects of climate change are very unpredictable.
So we can pass from too much water to no water at all.
And same time, we can have both things together, so no water
at all.
We have droughts.
And then it's pouring a lot of water
from one day to the other.
And we will have even much stronger
effect, impact on our cities.
Another type of climate event is the urban heat island,
so is when we have heatwaves in cities
and the city is not able to release this warmth.
So the city keeps accumulating warmth.
And this, for example, is the example,
is the city of Paris in 2003, in 2006, '11, '18, 2022,
they had many days in which they had heat waves.
And they were suffering [INAUDIBLE]..
And so, for example, the city of Paris
is trying to develop a plan to make more fresh
and to alleviate the problem of heatwaves.
For example, they also develop an app,
which will let you know where there
is a fresh place on your path while you are working,
so in order to find a place to get a bit of refrigerator,
if we can say that.
And this is a major problem in cities for everyone
but also is very dangerous for many vulnerable categories,
like elderly or young.
So in this picture, it's pretty clear
that is a fountain that usually is not used as a swimming pool.
But they were just going inside for the extreme warmth
that the city was facing.
Another type of climate events that
is more related to coastal city is called storm surge.
So you have this kind of flooding and storm
coming from the sea.
And this is about Sandy.

And we know that New Jersey and New York were highly affected
from that.
So this is another type of event.
Well, otherwise, we have still in coastal area
coastal erosion.
Coastal erosion was always there as [INAUDIBLE]..
They were always there.
But the problem of coastal erosion nowadays with climate
change is that it's more intense and more in the power.
So it's a more difficult to handle.
And it's very expensive for coastal cities
to handle the coastal erosion.

Other major problem, it's this acidification of the ocean.
So since that we are living in a planet in which we are driven
from a lot of human activities that are using fossil fuel,
we are also emitting a lot of CO2 when we are doing that.
And we are also deforesting different places in the world.
Most of these CO2 greenhouse gases,
they are absorbed from the ocean.
When the ocean is absorbing too much of the CO2,
the ocean gets more acid.
And when it gets more acid, it's decreasing
the capacity of organisms in the sea to live and be alive.
So we're going to face, and we are already facing,
and we're going to face even more
a loss of food and biodiversity in the sea, in the ocean.
And one of the many things that they are related to,
ocean acidification and warming of the ocean also,
is, for example, coral bleaching, coral bleaching.
So when we have acidification of the sea, at the same time,
we have very warm, very warm days
that makes warmer the average temperature of the sea.
What is happening, for example, to coral reef
is that they have this problem of bleaching.
So the coral they die, and they became white.
And then they get back as sand.
This was the example of Maldives in 2016,
that they lost a huge quantity of coral reef.
And when we lose coral reef, we are not only
losing biodiversity, but we have also
to know that coral reefs are natural solution
to break the power of the wave.
And they work as a barrier to counteracting coastal flooding
and storm surges.
So when we are not dealing well and when
we have this type of event, we are also,
I mean, destroying elements, natural elements
they have many other functions than being
developing biodiversity.

So, as you already saw, I show many types of extreme events.
Obviously, today we will focus in one
of these extreme events with our case of Copenhagen.
But what is very important is right
now to understand in which way we can fight climate change.
So we can do in two ways, so decreasing
the planet's temperature or adjust to a new climate.
So both things are right now going in the same direction.
I mean, we are doing both things.
The difference is that with mitigation,
so decreasing the planet temperature, the mitigation,
is the effort to prevent the emission of greenhouse gases.
So we have to use less fossil fuel.
We have to emit less CO2 in order to be [INAUDIBLE],,
don't increase even more the temperature of our planet.
If we are lucky to reach some of these target of decreasing
the emission of greenhouse gases,
maybe we will not reach that faster and higher temperature
that will lead to more extreme climate events.
At the same time, we are already in an advanced phase
of climate change.
So the climate is already changed.
So we have also to be able to adapt our cities.
So there are two ways.
So what we will going to talk today is about adaptation.
That is the process of adjustment of the actual
or the expected climate in our cities, in our territories,
in order to avoid to have losses and damage, for example.
So what we will also focus today in this presentation
in the next slide is to talk about adaptation
in climate change on the specific cases of--
in the specific case of Copenhagen.
So why is this an important case?
Why is it an interesting case, Copenhagen?
First of all, because it's a frontrunner
city in Europe and probably also in the world in the way they
address the climate issue in their city.
And especially the address it--
they address in 2011, after 2011,
after a very bad, extreme event in the city.
So that was the turning point of the city of Copenhagen,
in which they turned into something good.
So they developed something in order
to respond to these climate events.
So I would like just to introduce a little bit
the city of Copenhagen because I don't know if many of you
have been in Copenhagen. And I don't know how much of you--
if they know about Copenhagen. So Copenhagen
is the capital of Denmark.
The city of Copenhagen has approximately 600,000
inhabitants.
So it's a big city, but is not one of the biggest capital
cities of Europe.
But still, with the metropolitan area, the city of Copenhagen
reach around 1.5 million inhabitants.
The municipality of Copenhagen is
responsible of many types of or many things
of many types of planning, so environmental planning, water
supply planning, wastewater planning, climate change
adaptation, planning, and mitigation plan.
So the municipality is working towards different thematic
in order to make the city resilient.
There are two type of climate threats
for the city of Copenhagen. One is the heavy precipitation that
turn into flash floods in cities.
And the other one is sea level rise because Copenhagen
is on the sea.
All Denmark is pretty flat.
And Copenhagen, different parts of Copenhagen
are exactly on the sea level or even partially
below the sea level.
So that can also be a problem with sea level rise.
In July 2011-- so why is it that the city of Copenhagen
is important?
And there was this moment of a turning point
in which the city took action against climate change.
In July 2011, Copenhagen was hit from 1,000--
100-year storm that in two hour pushed more than--
poured more than 150 [? milliliters ?] of water.
That usually is the quantity that we
have in two months of precipitation, approximately.
So what usually was coming in two months,
it came in two hours.
So you can understand which kind of consequences on the city.
There were damaged critical infrastructure.
For example, some of the hospital had--
some the power station for the special events,
they were at the ground or underground level.
So they were flooded.
So they had to move patients from one hospital
to other hospital.
Meanwhile, there was this extreme event.
So it caused, more or less, $1 billion damages.
The city was completely flooded.

And the municipality understood that in that moment,
they had to do a shift.
They had to change the way how they were planning the city.
So they said, from now on, we have
to make a proper adaptation plan for the city.
So what happened is and is what I'm going to talk right now
is about the cloudburst plan strategy.
So the city, just right after what happened in July 2011,
they started right away to work on developing
a plan because they didn't want to have any more these damages
and loss of and problem.
So in 2012 was released the cloudburst,
the management plan.
That was an integrated adaptation plan
for the city, in which was containing protection, solution
against 100-year climate events.
At the same time, in order to develop these cloudburst,
they were also doing many cost-benefit analysis
in order to understand if every type of solution that they were
trying to think and developing was benefiting, really,
the city.
And the most important thing is that the old plan
was taught in a way in which the solutions,
they should have been mutlifunctional and
multibeneficial.
So the whole idea was that the solution
that they were developing or they
were building after making the plan,
they should not only serve to counteract the event,
but they should have also it be multibeneficial
for other reasons, like making better social space,
public space, having social interaction between people,
even just not delay or store water, but also reuse
that water.
So there were many ways in which the plan was thinking
about this adaptation solution.
But what was important before making the plan
was to understand how the city, the local characteristic,
how the morphologies of the city and the territory.
And they based the plan also, too, in a way that was--
the whole idea was to follow the natural flow of water.
They say, we cannot change, as we did till now,
by engineering solution change the flowing of the water
because when there will be a big, extreme event,
there will be some problem.
And the whole idea was to follow the natural flow of water
and try to deal with that in the city.
For example, the city was divided into catchments.
And for every single catchment, they
planned several types of solution
because there is not one solution that fit everything.
And it's also there are many solutions because depends also
in which type of part of the city you are,
which type of urban fabric you have.
So here, for example, in order to deal
with the water in Copenhagen, they
start to, in the plan, to develop
some sort of possible type of typological solution,
in which the whole idea was to--
for example, you can see there that there
are some type of solution that they
are central delay for storing water.
Other, they are doing retention boulevards.
So they are delaying the water next to a street.
Other one, they are just using this street
as a corridor for bringing water when there
is an excessive amount of it.
Then there is green roads transport,
in which there were small green infrastructure
next to the street.
And then in some specific case, when
they couldn't work on the surface,
they work underground by implementing water pipes.

So right now I will show you some
of your already implemented solutions
in the city of Copenhagen. Definitely
I will not go into the detail of everything and all
the solutions because there are several solutions
in Copenhagen. But I think it's worth it to see some of them
in order that you have a sense of what the city is working,
in which way it's working, which is the approach,
and in which way those solutions are counteracting these flash
floods, like a rainfall event.
So we will go through different types of solution.
We will start with some green streets and green highways.
And then we will move to green roof, also those green roofs,
they do their own part in this strategy of counteracting
climate events.
And then we will go to a more bigger type of project,
that they are urban park or climate quarters.
So we will start with Santana Square.
Santana Square is a good example of project
which the municipality and the project is.
They have to deal with a specific type of urban fabric.
So you have to think that this long sort of [? holly ?] square
in Copenhagen is placed, is located in the historical city
center.
So you have many type of regulation
that doesn't allow you to do exactly or put
the solution that you want.
You have to deal and, in many case, planner
and engineer and architect, they have to deal also
with what is there.
And that is important to understand
where you are because then you can plan,
and you can project the right solution that
would be effective in order to counteract a specific event.
In this specific case, it seems that they couldn't
work too much, and they couldn't make that big type
of green infrastructure.
They were working to keep a nice, long, green [? holly ?]
square, in which there are right now many other activities going
on.
So it's very nice, very pleasant.
There is a social impact because kids,
people can stop and have time.
Also under trees.
So the solution itself is multibeneficial
because the social impact is reducing also the latent
heat in the city because there is green, there are trees,
there is canopies.
And at the same time is this function of delay the water.
So the water is collected in the beginning,
is filtered and delayed into the green areas.
Then it will be brought to these rain pipes.
So in order to make it work, this solution,
they had to develop some rain pipes underground
that they guide the water in excess into the canal.
So this is an example in which they couldn't work
pretty much as they wanted.
But they had to find the solution that was
fitting a specific condition.
This solution is a very simple solution
in it is a [INAUDIBLE] way, in which
is a small, green infrastructure next to the street.
This is important to see that this type of [INAUDIBLE]
is the six or seven generation.
The city of Copenhagen from 2012 start
to make this type of green infrastructure,
is keeping monitoring them to see how they are really
effective in order to then fix and advance them
in order to when they will make new one,
they will have more advanced.
And this is also a good example of how the Cloudburst Plan is
integrated in this strategy, in all the other plan of the city.
This is a simple, normal street that they
had to renew it because it was completely ruined because it
was time to fix.
And what they did, meanwhile they were fixing,
they also knew from the Cloudburst Plan
that that street also was facing specific problem.
And that street could also work as delaying
a corridor for water.
So what they did, meanwhile, they
were fixing the street and the bicycle path.
They also add those [INAUDIBLE] in order
to store and delay water.
So this is a very good example of when
the different plan of a city, they
are also working in an integrated way.

Now we're going to move on to an upper floor.
So we're going to watch into three projects,
that they are one next to each other, about green roofs.
Green roof, they also, in a smaller probably way,
but they are still playing a role
in adapting our cities for extreme event.
And this is a very nice example of, as you can see on the right
and on the left, there are two main buildings,
that they are private owned.
And in the middle, the long path is a public-owned building.
And it's nice that those three projects,
they actually were built from different stakeholder.
But they are communicating, working together
as a whole project.
And this is very nice.
And, as you can see, I used the project stuff
from the level 0, the ground, the street level,
in which with the first project is like building
the stairs to get to the roof.
In this part of the city dune, these two buildings,
there is this path with many green infrastructure,
that they help to prevent flooding and, at the same time,
is making a nice environment for the citizens.
So citizens can work through this instead
to work next to a street, a car street.
To then get on the top of the national,
the new national archive--
so this green rooftop is a proper green roof,
in which there are many, many places in which people
can stop and have a moment of relaxation.
But at the same, under those green areas,
there are tank which they store water.
And when they store water, they delay water.
And this water has also been sometimes
reused to watering the grass.
And, at the same time, you can understand the social impact
of the solution of this entity.
To end up at the last part of the project, as you can
see here, you have the archive.
And then you get to the other, to the last part
of the project that is the roof top, the roof
garden of the Hotel Tivoli.
And it's very nice because it has the same function, mainly
these green infrastructure of the same capacity,
then the archive, in which they store, they use the water.
And at the same time, still, you have this nice path
in which you can get through vegetation, nice place instead
to be next to a car walking.
So this is a nice way of working, using also
other part of the city that can help
to counteract extreme events.
To then move to the last two projects,
those are a big-sized project.
This one specifically is called Enghave Park.
It is a new urban park.
And it's very beautiful project.
Actually, I live there close to this park.
So it's in a nice area.
And the park was already there.
It was closed for many years because they were developing
some specific solution in which in different area of the park,
there are under tank to basin, water basin,
to collect water in case of extreme event.
What is important of a urban park?
The urban park is not one solution
but is a combination of different solution
in order to adapt an area.
So in this specific case, the park
has many beneficial output.
So as a social impact, is a park in which
there are place for a different audience-- kids,
because there is a playground.
There is a space for staying, doing parties, doing sports
activities.
So there is a place for everyone.
At the same time, having a big, natural--
a big park in the city of the--
in the center of the city is also
reducing the warmth, the latent heat,
and also helped to increase the flow of air in the area.
At the same time, this park is storing water, depending
on the type of event, delaying the water,
and reusing the water to watering all the plants.
So what happened that there are different activities,
for example, in the number one is, OK, field.
So that can be completely filled up of water
and became a big lake.
And also other of them, the number two and the number six
and the number three, they are also
made that they can work in the same way.
So they are a bit lower than the level of the park.
They can work as also lakes.
But what is very interesting of this project, after all this,
is that worst plan for events that can happen once
every 100 years.
So what means that the park itself has many solutions.
And the solutions are working altogether.
And they are working in different way,
depending from the type of event.
So if you have events that happen normally,
only some part, a small part that will be flooded,
some small channel that will bring
to the main little lakes that is always there and stuff
like that.
When you will have an event that happen once every 10 years,
there are the [? OK ?] place in the rose garden
that they will be flooded.
And the [INAUDIBLE] in the tank under there will be flooded.
And this water will be reused later
on to give water to plants and so far so.
But what is very important is that in a case of--
in a situation, on an extreme event
that happen once every 100 years,
the park can work as a whole, as a lake.
So in that specific situation, that are mainly
three doors, one here--
one here at the entrance, and the other two here,
that they can be--
they are going to lift it up.
So they're going to be closed.
And when they close all this part,
since that is a bit as a slope, can be completely filled
with water in order to do not overwhelm the sewer
system because we have still a combined sewer
system, as many cities in the world have.
So the enormous work that they did here,
it was like to have this also way of make
this project in a way that could be changing,
depending of the needs.
And, as you can see, can be just lightly flooded,
mediumly flooded, and so it will be flooded only in some part,
or in a very extreme situation, completely flooded and became
a lake.

As the last project, I wanted to show you
this because I think it's also very nice, very
important, is the climate [? quarter, ?]
is called Clima [? quarter, ?] the Clima neighborhood.

And I think it's not just a good example for counteracting
extreme events but is a really good example
because this was also in this process of building
the project, they put together public and private citiz--
public institutions and private citizens together in order
to try to find and codesign solution
to adapting the city to the climate-- to climate change
issues.
So this is part of the project.
This is one of the main square of the project,
is called Tasigne Plads.
And this square works in the same way
of the park that I showed you before, so as different--
is made from different type of green infrastructure solution.

And they will work in different ways.
They can be working in different ways,
depending from the type of event.
But what is very important here is that before, this square was
mainly a parking lot, was mainly a parking lot,
that turns into being a wonderful, nice square.
And that turns also to be a nice place to stay.
So more people was then enjoying the square.
So what happened, that not only the social impact,
but you had also an economic impact in relation that
at the ground floor of that square,
there were no economic activities or just fewer
before they turned into this project, into a nice square.
So after we had this beautiful square, dancing Tasinge Plads,
many activities at the ground floor opened.
So there was not just a social impact,
there was also an economic impact
and a sort of a renovation of a quarter of the city
that was a bit more, we can say, gray.
The other wonderful things here, you
can see on the left of the picture how the square is
working in case of the extreme events,
so the different type of solution.
And now they are working all together.
But at the same time, on the right side, there are also--
they were also codesigned some solution for private courtyards
in between big buildings.
So logically, what is public was already made-- is already made.
And the municipality took the money.
But here, there was a nice commitment
in between private and public.
And it's very important that if in case a private,
they want to regenerate, restore, change
their own private garden, they have already some sort
of solution in which they can make a nicer garden that
also will function as an adaptation solution
to climate change.
So this, I think, it's something that is
very nice and very thoughtful.
So it was really something codesigned
between the municipality and the citizens of the area.
So what I would like to stress for the last time
in this presentation is that there
are a few things that we have to remember while we are planning
and when we are adapting a city to climate events.
So the green infrastructure solutions,
they have to be designed in a systemic perspective.
So we have to keep in mind that one solution cannot fix
the problem.
But several solutions integrated in the system
can help to counteract, to counteract climate events.
We have also to remember the green infrastructure should
maximize the cobenefits.
So, as we could see in our project,
green infrastructure solutions should not only
solve the water problem, but has to also enhance
the quality of public spaces, for example,
and also benefit also for or counteract also
other type of climate events in the city that can be,
for example, heatwaves or other type of event.
What is also very important to remember
is that while you are planning and you
are making a plan for the city, you
have always to remember the local characteristic.
Local characteristic of the city, the way
the city is built, the way the urban fabric
and the different urban fabric of the city
are crucial to be understood in order to find
the best solution that can fit the specific typologies
of city.
So because, as I said before, a solution that can work
somewhere maybe might not work in another place because there
are specific conditions that they don't-- doesn't allow it
to make it work.
What is very important, it's very important
always to involve citizens because the citizens are
the people that can be highly affected from an event.
But also, they are the one that they are living in the city,
and they are affected if it's planned in the wrong way.
So it's nice that we can codesign, cocreate our cities.
And what is very important that I also
stressed before is the monitoring of the solution.
So when you make a plan, you have to monitor the plan.
And you have to monitor all the type of solution
to see if they are working in a proper way
and they are effective.
Otherwise, then you will have problems.
But the important thing is that no one
have the perfect solution that always work.
The important thing is to monitor the solution
that you are going to implement in order
to then see if it's working because if it is not working,
you are in time to change it.
But if you don't do monitoring, you
will never know if it is working properly
or not, so if it was worth it to spend the money for that.
So I will say you thank you.
This was the presentation.
I hope that you enjoyed.
So thank you very much.
See you.
Thank you.