
PROFESSOR: And then mortgage, the debt market.
We also saw some products of the green mortgage.
Green mortgage basically is for the borrowers
to buy or renovate an existing building
and to borrow money from the bank.
And if the lender of the bank, they
evaluate, oh, this is an energy efficiency mortgage,
then they are willing to provide lower, more favorable terms
to the borrower, say, oh, we will charge you
a lower interest rate for this mortgage.
So there's a conventional mortgage, higher interest rate,
while if you have energy efficient mortgage,
green mortgage, then you can enjoy a discount
of your interest rate.
So each month you'll pay less money back to the bank.
Great.
And why?
What's the rationale?
Why are the banks, the lenders, they
are willing to lower the interest rate?
And the rationale is very clear, because the banks
they understand, they understand that
for those greener buildings, houses for example,
or commercial real estate, because they
will become energy more efficient
and then they will gain a market value.
So the property value will appreciate.
So that the loan to value ratio will decrease, right?
For example, this 1 million house.
And you borrow like 0.8 million.
So the loan to value ratio is 1 8, 88%.
But if you have green building, so your total price value will
increase, become like 1.1 million,
then the loan to value ratio will decrease to less than 88%,
which means safer to the bank.
The bank like lower loan to value ratio,
means lower default risk, then they said good.
You are safer so lower interest rate.
Another thing is because the energy efficiency,
they understand the household in that house
will pay lower energy bills every month.
So that can free up some income to pay back
the mortgage monthly payment, which
will also reduce borrower's probability of default.
So both the lower loan-to-value ratio, and the lower
monthly energy bill, will together
reduce the likelihood of default. The bank say good,
this is a safer mortgage.
So they are willing to charge lower interest rate, which
is good for the borrower.
So that's the rationale.
And this is not just a speculation.
Some empirical studies, for example, this paper,
I show on the screen, they started like a national sample
of 71,000 loans from CoreLogic.
And then they show that energy-efficient houses really
are one-third less likely than the counterparts,
those non-energy efficient houses,
in terms of the default likelihood.
That's a big change.
And one-third are less likely to default.
So that's to justify the lower interest rate.
This is another paper, more recent paper,
also found a similar thing and says
energy efficiency is negatively correlated with default risk.
Higher energy efficiency, lower default risk, better, safer.
And even this effect is much larger
for low-income households, because they
have a very strict budget constraint.
Every month they have this limited income.
But if the energy bill really goes down,
they really free up that amount of income,
so important for them to pay back
the bank of their mortgage.
And these also exist for commercial real estate.
This is another paper.
And they started commercial real estate office buildings,
shopping malls, and those commercial real estate.
And they say this is Energy Star, that certificate
means high energy efficiency buildings,
have a 35%, also one-third lower default rate,
than other buildings.
And for the LEED buildings, even half lower default rate,
50% lower default rate, much better.
So they can get this low interest rate, favorable terms,
from the banks for their mortgage.
Then we think about bigger things, not just
one mortgage, two mortgages, or the PE, small private equity
firms, but these listed companies
called REITs, these real estate investment
trusts, big listed real estate investment companies.
And some empirical studies also show
that for those green rates, they have higher return on equity,
ROE, or return on asset, ROA.
So they also have very much better stock performance,
I mean, the stock price performance
in the United States stock market.
So that's real.
So they studied all the real estate companies,
about 200 REITs now in the United States.
And then they say, OK, those REITs,
we invest in greener things, their portfolio greener.
So they have better stock market performance.
They have higher return, and this is very good.
So it means sustainable real estate really creates
value for the stockholders.
And then they even quantify that increase
of the 1% of the LEED assets in their portfolio, LEED buildings
in their entire portfolio of the REITs, they lead to the higher,
like 3.5% increase in the return on asset, a 7.9% increased
return on equity.
So that also reduced the systematic risk.
Bond, bigger things on that market.
So bond for example, the green bonds in real estate,
it's the individual mortgages by then Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac.
We saw those big government-sponsored
enterprises, they securitize those mortgages
and then they issue green bonds.
And then they have a multifamily green MBS.
And they say, OK, these are multifamily green bonds.
They tell you what the products in these green bonds.
These green reverse mortgage loans and pool them together
and ties become greener loans, and with these buildings,
energy saved, and get some certificate.
And then they sell these green bonds in the market.
And the market appreciates that, and they have better return.
So that's a way of that market that values green real estate
so that and efficient buildings can finance,
can get capital from both the equity,
like the rates, the private equity,
and get capital from that side of the mortgage
and also this bonds market, then the capital flow
into sustainable real estate.
Finally, just now I set so much of the bright side,
green assets, favorable terms in both equity and debt market,
capital flow year.
But now it's a little bit dark side.
That's on the opposite side.
These climate disasters, climate risks,
how that will affect this financing channel.
So I will use the example of the mortgage market.
So for examples, for example, some coastal areas
it's a high climate risk, right?
And then those places, because of the hurricanes, wildfire,
and all those climate shocks, then they suffer.
They suffer, then the housing market also
declines, because local labor market
got negative shocks and the jobs left.
And then people's salary went down and local quality of life
declined.
So altogether, lower demand for real estate housing
there, commercial and housing.
And then which means for the properties,
their value will go down.
If their value goes down, then there
will be a higher likelihood and the mortgage
on those properties will default, right?
Because you borrow mortgage and then at first,
you have a high property value.
But the climate risk pushes your value down,
and once your value is low enough and below even
the amount of your mortgage loan,
then you will have a higher likelihood to default, and say,
OK, I cannot pay back.
You take my property.
And my property is just such a low value, you take it away.
And I'm not going to pay back the mortgage.
So that will be a big damage loss to the lenders, who
are the banks, and then later securitized and sold
in the broader capital market.
So that will be a disaster.
So there are empirical papers again,
climate risk in mortgage market.
So and then they say this is California.
And there's a wildfire, and say after the wildfire, the default
or delinquency increased by 1% in these areas affected
by those wildfires.
That's big.
And then the value goes down.
And then the default risk goes up.
So then the banks and those buyers of the securitized MBS
suffered a lot.
And then you may say, oh, insurance can help.
You just buy insurance.
However, the problem is a dilemma.
As you understand the basic principle,
economics of insurance companies is
to stabilize the income, right?
Then you transfer money from the good times, no disaster
and no earthquake.
There's good times to cover the loss of the bad times,
like disaster.
But since the global warming has become more and more prominent,
and the number of these climate-related disasters
is growing, it's like extreme weather conditions
and the hurricanes and the flooding and all these things,
more and more often.
So the loss, the bad times become more and more bad
times, and less and less good times, problem.
The insurance premium the companies,
the insurance companies collected from the good time,
may not be enough to be transferred
to be used for the bad times.
So the insurance companies may go bankrupt
if they still do this business.
So that means the insurance may not
be enough to insure the properties against climate
change.
Then you say, OK, the government can step in.
But that's another problem.
That problem means, for example, the Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac, these two big government-sponsored
enterprises, they already subsidized the mortgage market,
right?
They sponsor those mortgages, especially
for middle and low income people.
That's good.
That can reduce inequality issues.
And then those houses, they are in flat lands, many of them.
They have high risk of being damaged.
And this means you need to--
the Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae said, OK,
if you want to borrow money, then
you need to also buy flood insurance or climate,
some disaster insurance.
And then because, then the government,
another agency called National Flood Insurance Program, also
owned by the government, the federal government,
they step in and say, oh, we will
provide this insurance, flood insurance,
at a reasonable price.
However, because of the number of flooding, these disasters,
this National Flood Insurance Program,
they didn't have enough money.
And they ran out of money, and went to Congress
to ask for more money.
But they are still limited.
And then the houses kept uninsured
and then either got flooded and defaulted,
and the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac got the loss.
So that's a negative feedback loop.
That's a big challenge of the climate change
to the real estate finance.
OK, that's my brief introduction of the economic side
and the finance side of the sustainable real estate.
Thank you.