PROFESSOR: In my second talk, I want
to cover how we can transition to a clean electric grid.
As I mentioned earlier, 76% of the greenhouse gas problem
is carbon dioxide we emit when we burn coal, oil,
and natural gas.
So the number one thing we must do
is get off fossil fuels as quickly as possible.
The fastest growing renewable energy technologies
are wind and solar.
Wind turbines have traditionally been primarily land-based,
but offshore wind is now taking off.
Solar photovoltaic modules convert solar energy directly
to electricity.
Central utility plants are the most cost effective,
followed by community scale systems,
but rooftop installations are growing rapidly as well.
In recent years, we've seen a dramatic decrease
in the cost of wind and solar-generated electricity.
They're now the cheapest forms of electricity
in many parts of the country.
Notice especially that we've seen a six-fold drop
in the cost of electricity provided
by large solar photovoltaic installations
in just the last 10 years.
Most dramatic of all, we've seen a large drop
in the cost of lithium ion batteries, which
allow us to store these variable forms of electricity.
Because of the low cost, these clean technologies
are experiencing an exponential growth.
This graph shows cumulative global growth in gigawatts,
or thousands of megawatts.
The black bars are wind and the green curve is solar.
The cost of solar has gotten so low that solar is now
surpassing wind.
That's a great thing because in terms of the total resource
potential, solar energy swamps out all the other resources.
It's important to note that clean energy, which includes
both energy efficiency and renewable energy,
already has employed three times as many people as fossil fuels.
Prior to the pandemic, the US Bureau of Labor statistics
listed solar installer and wind turbine technician as the two
fastest growing jobs.
Of course, the challenge with wind and solar
is that unlike coal and nuclear plants that typically
run 24 hours a day, they're variable resources,
and the challenge is how to transition
to them in a way that continues to provide
reliable electricity.
First, it helps if wind and solar are deployed together
because they're complementary.
As this example graph shows, wind, the yellow curve,
tends to blow more in the winter,
whereas there's more solar energy, the pink curve,
during the long days of summer.
The two resources are also complementary on a daily basis.
The wind tends to blow more at night
and you've probably noticed that the sun shines during the day.
Another way utility operators can get steady power
from these variable resources is to harness them from a wide.
Area when one place is cloudy, another may be sunny.
When the wind drops in one location,
it's typically blowing somewhere else.
This graph shows the example of two wind farms.
The small one with only 15 turbines on the top
has highly variable output, but the much larger one
with 200 turbines, shown on the bottom,
provides much steadier output.
It also helps utility operators to have good day ahead
and hour ahead forecasts of the weather and the solar and wind
resources.
The concept of spatial diversity can be taken to the limit
by building new transmission lines that
connect different parts of the country,
much as we built the interstate highway system.
And of course, we can take advantage of those much lower
cost batteries, both on the utility
scale, like the one shown here, and on an individual building
or community scale.
Finally, buildings use three quarters of US electricity.
New home energy management systems
can provide demand response by controlling
when electricity is used.
Electric vehicles, electric heat pump water heaters,
dishwashers, et cetera are all so-called distributed energy
resources that can help match the electricity
demand to the variable renewable electricity supply.