
GINA ZIERVOGEL: I'm Gina Ziervogel.
This session is about equitable urban climate adaptation.
And I'm based in South Africa at the University of Cape Town.
So hopefully you are familiar what adaptation is
and what urban adaptation is.
So essentially, the way I see it is it's
about reducing the impacts of climate change
in cities and in urban areas.
And living in South Africa, I'm particularly
interested in what it means to think about equitable
urban climate adaptation.
So how can the adaptation and the implementation
of responses to climate impacts be more equitable?
So first of all, what is clear is
that in order to think about more
equitable urban adaptation, we need to understand
why things are inequitable.
And this really needs us to draw on an understanding of the past
and how things have evolved historically.
Of course, in Southern Africa--
in Africa, colonization is a very important part of that
and it means that certain groups were more privileged
than others.
So part of it is addressing this inequity in access to services,
part of it is in listening to diverse perspectives,
and this all contributes to a more socially just response
to adaptation, which is how I see equitable climate
adaptation.
This also links to transformative adaptation,
which I see as closely linked because for me,
transformative adaptation means adaptation that
is reducing climate risk, as well as reducing some
of the inequities in society.
It's transforming some of the social and ecological systems
and a very important part of that
for me is the unjust nature of our current systems.
So of course, in many of our cities,
we have many groups that we know are more marginalized.
This is often the poorer communities, those
who live in housing that is not very sturdy,
battles to withstand climate shocks, whether it is flooding,
whether it is strong winds, whether it is fires.
But also, it's about these people
and their everyday reality of trying
to cope with the daily climate risks,
and often they're unable to do so without undermining
the livelihoods that they have.
So we need to change how adaptation is done, I feel.
And my provocation for you today is
how do we think about implementing adaptation
in a more equitable way?
And in many ways, we can do this.
So I'm just going to touch on a few
and hopefully you can find different examples
and think of different ways that would really consider equity
in more detail when we think about adaptation.
So one of the things we see in cities
is that city planning lends itself
to inequitable responses.
So often, low income households are
living in certain areas that are very exposed to climate risk.
Here in Cape Town, for example, many
of the informal settlements and shacks are on the floodplain,
and so they are subjected to flooding every winter.
Also, the houses are built in materials
that make it very easy for these shacks to get very hot,
which is also a risk.
So thinking about land use planning how cities are built,
where people are located, the infrastructure,
the transport that they have accessible to them
is a really important part of making
adaptation more equitable.
Another part is really about the process and procedural justice.
How do we ensure that the more vulnerable groups really
get a say?
And I do think it's useful to stop and think about the fact
that in the past, when cities were smaller where there were
fewer people living in cities, there
were fewer extreme climate risks, actually,
city governments were able to provide a lot of the services
and meet the needs of many of the people living in cities.
And ideally, this is what we'd like.
I would like to be in a city where
I don't have to be involved in deciding
how I get my water during a drought
and what happens during flooding.
I'd like my roads to be well drained,
I'd like services to clean away debris in the roads.
However, what we're seeing is the challenge
of climate change adaptation is so big that governments
can't do it alone.
And so we need to have multiple actors involved.
Equally, often these people in low income areas
are underserviced, and so often have
to put in their own time and effort
to try and reduce the impacts of climate change.
So the second thing I'm suggesting
is really about this idea of collaboration
and co-production.
And for many cities, this is not the way they've worked.
I know in Cape Town, this is not how things have worked.
The city of Cape Town local government
is not particularly good at engaging
with neighborhood groups.
But the argument is, and what we're seeing
is some of the exciting projects that are emerging,
and programs, and interventions really
take a much more coproductive approach where
there is time and space for different actors
to come together for them to share their perspectives on how
they think climate risk could be reduced in their neighborhood.
What we see is people living in neighborhoods
understand the local context.
A central part to adaptation is context-specific responses
that not only reduce climate risks,
but do that in tandem with understanding the other risks,
the other developmental challenges
that people are faced with.
And if we want to ensure that climate change adaptation is
equitable, we need to understand these development challenges.
And to do that, we need to bring in multiple groups.
This is often a time-consuming process.
It requires new resources that cities are often
unable to give.
Some of the donors are able to give this,
but it's slowly shifting towards that direction.
And we need people to be able to conceptualize these responses,
to be able to unpack them.
I think facilitators are very important in this process,
intermediaries who are able to bring different groups together
that might be in conflict.
And conflict's fine.
Difference of opinion is fine.
We need to find where is that common ground
and how can we move forward together
to think of multiple needs, not just maintaining the status quo
and addressing the needs of those in power,
but the needs of those who are most vulnerable.
And this is an urgent priority that we need to engage with.