
MIRANDA MASSIE: Welcome to the Climate Museum.
We're here to talk about sneezes, cultural centers,
and what that has to do with climate action
at our very first pop-up and transit-accessible
in Manhattan.
Join me inside.

Hi again.
My name is Miranda Massie, and I'm
the director of the Climate Museum, which you now
see from the inside.
It's our first transit-accessible Manhattan
pop-up.
I'm super excited to be here because we think cities hold
so much generative capacity.
So it's a joy to be part of this massive open online course
on cities and climate change.
Cities have a huge role to play in the climate
crisis in a whole range of different respects
that other people will be talking to you about.
I'm here on behalf of our amazing team today
to talk about how cities as cultural centers
can help advance us toward climate justice,
toward the future we all need and deserve.
Cities are super dense.
They're super diverse.
People come into contact with each other in a range of ways.
And given the correct cultural nudges,
cities are places where ripples of change
can compound to create a shift across the society that puts us
in a position to get the kinds of climate policy that we need.
Now, sometimes climate and climate policies
will also shift our culture.
It's not just a one way street.
But one thing is certain without a cultural shift,
we won't get the policies that we need and deserve.
We thought we'd give you an example of the ways
that the density of cities and the way that people constantly
are coming into contact with each other
and having lots of different conversations,
both within their established communities
and across communities, can make a huge difference when
it comes to climate action.
We're going to use the United States as an example behind me
is a wall that lays out some new and surprising social science.
More than 2/3 of American adults support
transformational climate justice policies, a Green New Deal,
reparative payments to the communities of color
and low-income white communities that
have been treated as sacrifice zones
by the fossil fuel industry, and other deeply meaningful bold,
ambitious policies that would start
to get us where we need to go.
The problem is we hold those beliefs privately.
And we think that we're in a small embattled minority,
not in a huge 2/3 majority of the adult population.
This creates a spiral of silence where
we don't talk about it because we think we're in a minority.
And therefore, we think we can't take
action that feels meaningful.
So there's no sense in talking about it,
and it feels stigmatic to talk about it.
And the spiral of silence escalates
When we tell our visitors that everybody across the United
States in every state statistically speaking
underestimates the level of support
for transformational climate policy by half,
it blows people's minds.
And they find it very empowering to learn
that not only are they not alone in supporting
the policies that we need, they're also not
alone in misunderstanding themselves
as being part of a small minority in support
of those policies when, in fact, it's a huge supermajority.
Before walking you all over to the place where it all
comes together in climate action, our climate
action sticker wall, I want to talk
for a moment about why our work leans into the arts
and how arts relate to cities as cultural centers.
Behind me is a major new work of climate art, a postcard mural
by the artist David Opdyke that in beautiful, super intelligent
form portrays a potential near-future
in which we haven't taken the action that we need to take.
So it is in some sense a dystopian view,
but it is a call to action.
It is a call for us to do the things
that we need to do to avoid the disruption that's
depicted behind me that I understand
is probably hard for you all to interpret
on a small scale on your screens.
But I recommend going to David's website davidopdyke.com
and zooming in and out of this extraordinary work,
which is called "Someday, all this,"
to get a better sense of what the art looks like
and what it does.
Urbanists often talk about cities
as machines for learning that's a bit of a common place.
And that relates to the first wall
that we visited where we talk about the new social science
of the climate justice supermajority
so these are also machines for creativity
and for artistic production, again, because of their density
and because of the diversity of the human beings who inhabit
them, coming into contact with each other
in a range of different ways and learning new things.
The arts connect us in a manner that's profound.
We've recently learned that it's quite likely
that a genetic mutation for aesthetic appreciation
differentiates us as Homo sapiens
from our Neanderthal cousins, for example.
And it's no accident that there are
paintings on the walls of some of our first homes,
those caves in France, or that speech and song evolved
together.
The arts are built into how we relate to each other,
how we relate to our own potential,
and they open us up to a sense of capacity
for meaningful action.
That's why our work focuses on the arts,
and that's one of the ways in which cities
can be such powerful leaders in the movement
forward that we need globally for action on climate.
And we arrive at our climate action commitment wall.
It's an installation of stickers created by our visitors
as they make commitments to become active on climate
in a range of different ways, which include asking banks
to withdraw their investments in fossil fuel infrastructure,
pushing for truthful climate content at schools
and in the media, busting the myth of American climate
indifference, that myth that we talked about a few minutes ago
where people believe we're in a small minority
of those supporting aggressive action on climate
when, in fact, we're a huge majority.
There are many different ways to take climate action,
and we encourage people above all
to find their own way with this blank, open-ended sticker that
simply says "I'm going to."
And people have written in hundreds
of different ideas for climate action on this sticker.
And you see behind me a wall that
started absolutely bare with the simple words,
"This is the truth."
that is to say the truth of the climate super majority.
And gradually over time filled with stickers
and over the last seven months now has tens of thousands
of stickers on it.
These stickers are six, seven, eight, stickers
deep in some spots on the wall.
And it has been an extraordinary inspiration
to see how the combination of a strong arts
intervention, a new piece of empowering
information about climate opinion in the United States,
and then a concrete set of suggestions for how you can
take action that's meaningful, that both is meaningful
and that feels meaningful, how simple the ingredients are when
you're in a setting where people are bumping into each other
all the time as they are in a city, how simple
the ingredients that are required to start to create
the ripples that we need for a cultural shift that can get us
to a point of public engagement and open,
loud support for climate action that we
need to see the policies that are
required to move us forward.
So cities are critical in many other respects, not just
as cultural centers, not just as homes
for initiatives like this one.
But when it comes to spreading the word,
getting people talking, changing the civic culture
that we inhabit and that our legislators and policymakers
and decision makers in the private sector
experience as their decision-making environment,
cities are an unparalleled opportunity
to make change toward climate justice
and toward climate progress.
Thank you for visiting with us today.