
JANELLE KNOX-HAYES: Welcome to Cities and Climate Change--
Mitigation and Adaptation.
I'm Janelle Knox-Hayes.
I'm an associate professor of economic geography
and environmental policy in the Department of Urban Studies
and Planning at MIT.
CYNTHIA ROSENZWEIG: I'm Cynthia Rosenzweig.
I'm the co-leader of UCCRN, the Urban Climate Change Research
Network.
JANELLE KNOX-HAYES: This course is
designed to teach students and practitioners the ins and outs
of climate mitigation and adaptation at the city level,
with a focus on understanding civic action, governance
and policy deliberation, and strategic change
across sectors.
The course will focus on challenges of equity
and access; disaster risk and resilience; health, energy,
and transportation; housing; ecological change;
coastal transformation; and more.
CYNTHIA ROSENZWEIG: The main learning objective
of this course is for students to learn, assess, mobilize,
and plan climate actions, from the lens of a city case
study of their choice.
It also links to sustainable development goal
number 11, for inclusive, safe, resilient,
and sustainable cities.
JANELLE KNOX-HAYES: The course is structured
into three four week modules.
The first seeks to understand climate change; the second
to assess climate action and mobilize actors;
and the third to plan climate action.
CYNTHIA ROSENZWEIG: In the first module,
students will gather critical data and information
about their city and work on building a power actors
diagram.
JANELLE KNOX-HAYES: In the second module,
students will examine interactions
across six pathways for responding
to climate action in their city with a UCCRN spider diagram.
CYNTHIA ROSENZWEIG: Finally, students
will learn how to develop a climate action plan
and write an initial climate action
prospectus for their city, focusing
on building policy recommendations
based on the shortcomings they identify in their UCCRN spider
diagram.
JANELLE KNOX-HAYES: In addition to the core faculty,
the course is taught by a leading international cadre
of urban climate experts.
Working with this group of experts to build this class
has been a distinct pleasure for us,
and we hope you enjoy learning from this material
as much as we enjoyed creating it.
