MATTIA LEONE: Hi, everyone.
One of the key urban climate factors to take into account
when planning and designing is the green and blue infrastructure
of the city. A wide and complex topic, which historically
architects and engineers have treated,
focusing more on the "visible" aspects, whether
for aesthetics or functional reasons. When actually what is
more important
what happens out of our sight,
the complex interrelation between plants, soil, water,
and their perfect symbiotic balance,
which is critical to sustain life on the planet as we
know it,
and that highlight the need for planners and designers
to collaborate with environmental scientists,
biologists, geologists, agronomists,
to learn how to exploit such incredible potential
for our cities.
As an architect, when talking about nature and cities,
my first thought goes to the Austrian artist and architect
Friedrich Hundertwasser, and to his "tree tenant" concept,
that by making nature systemically intertwined
with the built environment and human life
was able to poetically (and practically) anticipate most
of the key benefits of green and blue infrastructure integration
in cities. Concepts that have been later on formalized
as "ecosystem services", for which I recommend
to refer on the seminal work of TEEB and the wide evolving scientific literature on
the topic.
Among those, for example: The "Provisioning Services"
describe the material or energy outputs from ecosystems.
They include food, water, and other resources,
such as construction materials.
Or the "Regulating Services" that ecosystems
provide by simultaneously controlling
the quality of air, soil, and water, providing
integrated climate change mitigation/adaptation and
responding to contemporary challenges
such as public health.
Equally essential are the Habitat and Cultural services.
In recent years, several urban projects
have showcased the potential of green and blue infrastructure
in shaping cities' public spaces,
including small-scale "pop-up" street gardens,
adapting to specific constraints linked, for example, to heritage
and transport infrastructure integration,
supporting stormwater management,
acting as interface between buildings and open spaces
to control flood, suggesting innovative ways to decentralize
rainwater management and sanitation, supporting the growing
need of local food production and restoring biodiversity
in cities, exploring the benefits of symbiosis
with other green technology, for mutual
benefits
(the vegetation cools the solar panels
and increases their productivity, while they
provide shade and habitat diversity for surrounding flora),
showcasing and educating about the full range of ecosystem
services linked to Nature-based Solutions.
In terms of urban microclimate, the multiple benefits of green
and blue infrastructure are mostly linked to their ability
of simultaneously acting on the two critical well-known aspects
that aggravate climate change impacts in cities--
the urban heat island, and the unbalanced hydrological cycle
due to extensive soil sealing and building density.
Key parameters to model their effect with respect
to heat and flood are linked to both general aspects,
such as morphology and layout of green and blue areas in cities,
both specific ones, such as the temperature and water control
properties of specific typologies and solutions.
If we look, for example, at satellite images displaying
the surface temperature of a city, which
is critical to reduce outdoor urban heat,
one can clearly recognize the benefits of green and blue
infrastructure in cities.
This is mainly due to the evapotranspiration effect,
which, depending on species type, regulates the temperature and moisture
in the diurnal-nocturnal cycle.
These aspects refer, of course, to "healthy" urban vegetation
and thus are strictly connected to irrigation needs
and compatibility of species, the local changing climate.
Here you see how dry meadow without irrigation on a summer
period does not differ much from a dark stone in terms
of surface temperature,
and also, so you can see the great benefits from shading
under the trees, with higher vegetation.
About water and pluvial flood, geomorphology
of urban watersheds, and land cover determine areas
more subject to surface runoff and flow accumulation.
Infiltration, retaining, and disposal of rainwater
needs to be carefully planned with respect to local conditions,
including the knowledge of underground streams
and aquifers, to balance green and gray solutions.
In flood plains and flood-risk-prone areas,
effective strategies combine the restoring natural
riverine systems with compatible public uses,
dimensioning solutions with respect
to the different water levels in the dry and wet seasons.
Ultimately, a smart combination of green and blue solutions,
integrated with ordinary measures
for buildings and an open spaces, have to be designed and communicated
highlighting and quantifying the multiple benefits
towards heat and
flood risk.
I want to leave you here again with the words
of Hundertwasser.
who give us a perfect summary of what
we should bear in mind when planning and designing
green and blue infrastructure in cities.