VIVIEN GORNITZ: Let's see.
So we just go forward here.
All right so the theme today is rising seas.
So I'll be giving an overview of sea level rise
and what's happening with the ice sheets and glaciers
and what effects it's going to have on New York
City in particular and what the city is doing
to strengthen its coastal defenses against future sea
level rise.
And with that in mind, I just want
to point out the most recent global temperature
trend that was just released a few weeks ago.
And the main point is that temperature has
been rising since the 1880s.
It may be accelerating.
I see as somewhat of a curvature in that graph.
And the key point that was mentioned early in January
was that the last five years are the highest
over that entire period.
So we're definitely on a warming trend.
And it may very well be that the last half a decade
is a new step increase.
We have to see if that trend persists
or if it's simply a high like that during the 1940s.
But definitely upward trend due to increasing greenhouse gases.
And New York temperatures have also
been on the increase, as can be seen in this graph
from Central Park, which is not far from where I live.
The weather station's just a block and a half away,
and the two airports, LaGuardia and JFK.
Now, Dan, maybe you can indicate why is the trend higher
for the two airports.
I would have thought that being near water,
they'd be cooler in summer.

DANIEL BADER: Their time series are shorter,
which is likely influencing some of the trend timeline.
There's also been--
I don't believe it's reflected in the annual series
for Central Park, but there had been some data quality
issues at one point, not in the annual series
though, but Central Park is also,
the weather station is pretty vegetated.
So the vegetation does play a role
in temperatures, specifically in particular
during the summer time.
And also Laguardia's proximity to the airport,
the tarmac itself is an issue with data quality,
that summative phrase.
VIVIEN GORNITZ: Oh I see, I see, Yeah,
I definitely notice the cooling aspect of the vegetation
when I go to the park in the summer.
Yeah, for which I'm grateful.
And sea levels also have been on the rise.
This can be shown by this curve.
And it's probably been accelerating
since the 1990s, the trend being over three millimeters a year
now as compared to the centennial trend
of about 1.7 millimeter a year.
And interestingly, the tide gauges,
which are basically coastal in the last few years
seem to be warming more than the satellite
images, which are covering the entire oceans.
And so shallower waters near the coast
will probably tend to warm up faster than the open ocean.
And so this is simply a synopsis of the centennial sea level
trend versus that of the satellite era,
as can be seen that since the 1990s,
the sea level rise has gone much faster than it has
over most of the 20th century.

And a large part of this is coming from melting ice,
both from the glaciers as well as both ice sheets now.
And here we're looking at glacier contributions
to global sea level rise, both on a global level
in the large yellow sphere on the lower left and the smaller
ones, you know, various regions of the world.
And Alaska and North America and the Southern Andes, Greenland,
and the Russian Arctic seem to be contributing
the most of glacial ice melt.
DANIEL BADER: You want a little questions or should we hold on?
VIVIEN GORNITZ: Questions, while they're fresh in your minds.
DANIEL BADER: What was the ASW increasing area?
VIVIEN GORNITZ: AS-- if you go back one slide, in India ASW,
is mainly Asia Southwest or something.
VIVIEN GORNITZ: Oh that could be that Karakoram anomaly
in the Northwest Himalayas.
For a while that area seemed to be gaining ice mass, contrarily
to the rest of the world.
And that's sort of debated as to why and if that trend is
persisting or not.
DANIEL BADER: I know at least in our IPCC assessment,
we had a big conversation about that.
And I think since this 2019 paper, that's at the very least
turned flat if not the new assessment is
that it's even there downwards.
VIVIEN GORNITZ: Right.
STUDENT: I had a question on Antarctica.
And since we know that the poles warm disproportionately
to the rest of the globe, I wonder why Antarctica is
so small and that's--
VIVIEN GORNITZ: Well, it's much colder than the Arctic.
And the Arctic is warming up at least twice as fast
as the rest of the world.
According to Gavin a few weeks ago,
he was saying that three times as fast.
DANIEL BADER: There's also more precipitation
here in Antarctica, setting off some of the mass
VIVIEN GORNITZ: In terms of snowfalls.
Yeah.
Yeah, and it's only recently that Antarctica
has been losing mass, mostly along the ice shelves in West
Antarctica, I should add.
Although there are a few hotspots
if you will in East Antarctica as well.

And this just shows the contributions
to sea level rise from the glaciers,
according to Zemp, which is one of the-- he's
got one of the longer records.
And then it has been increasing in the last couple of decades.
That's the main point.
And the beautiful glacier on the lower left
is the Aletschgletscher in Switzerland in the Swiss Alps.

And the ice sheets are currently tracking
at the high end of future projections
according to Slater et al., 2020, as can be seen.
So, not to omit high end scenarios, because that
may be the wave of the future.
But I don't know what others are thinking about it,
but I kind of lean in that direction.
DANIEL BADER: You know, Vivian, are these upper, middle,
and lower trends, are those like the RCPs?
Or is it like a glacial dynamics, upper, mid and lower?
VIVIEN GORNITZ: No, I think those
are linked to the AR5 RCPs, the clustering of models
that are contributing to that.

And here we see the analogous increases from Greenland.
Again, within the last two decades
the trends have been going up relative to older periods.
And similarly in Antarctica, which
has only started melting in a serious way in the last 20
years or so.

And this is just a very quick overview of sea level rise
and ice mass loss trends from various sources
that I've compiled.
And the key feature here is that if you combine all ice mass
losses together, that now constitutes
the dominant source of sea level rise in the aggregate,
more important than thermal expansion,
and will become more so in the future most likely.
And potential ice sheet these stabilizers
include ice shelf fracturing and cravassing,
the nature of the subglacial topography, and roughness,
and internal glacial plumbing, and
subsurface thermal anomalies, areas of higher heat flow
under parts of an ice sheet that might enhance
basal melting, which could cause the ice
to slide faster, and therefore calve off once the ice
stream reaches the ocean.

And this is sort of a graphic schematic view
of two potential ice sheet instabilities.
The most commonly cited and probably
most likely to occur is the marine ice sheet
instability or MISI whereby in Antarctica in particular
it is ringed to a large extent by ice shelves that
are floating extensions of glaciers or ice
streams once they reach the ocean.
And beneath it, you have water that
could be exposed to warmer ocean, deep ocean currents,
that sweep in according to--
that's portrayed schematically in the diagram
by that reddish curve, bringing in warm water, which
would melt the undersides of the ice shelf
and erode them that way by melting.
And so that bit by bit, as shown by one,
two, three on that slide, there would be
undermining of the ice shelf.
And once it reaches the point where the slope beneath the ice
sheet points inland or inverse slope as it's called,
you set up an instability because that
allows the ice sheet to advance more rapidly, thin out.
And at the ocean edge of the ice shelf,
large chunks of ice or icebergs break off.
And that's one of the mechanisms whereby the ice sheet could
lose mass a lot more rapidly than simply by surface melting.
And the other instability involves the ice cliffs.
Once the ice shelf has been removed entirely,
you face the edge of the ice sheet.
It generally terminates in these high cliffs, over 100 meters
or so.
But that is potentially unstable as well.
And here you can see crevasses already developing in the ice.
And if they propagate all the way to the base,
huge chunks can break off.
And this is another means of accelerating the loss of mass
from an ice sheet.
And here you see actually in action,
this is the Pine Island Glacier, the pink glacier,
it's the Pine Island glacier, which
is one of the most rapidly retreating
glaciers in West Antarctica.
And there are, where the arrows are pointing,
and especially closer to the edge where it meets the ocean,
you can actually see fractures of crevasses
where icebergs are breaking off.
And I should also point out that there's
another area of potential fracturing
and crevassing along the edges of the ice stream or glacier
where the faster moving ice is in contact
with the rest of the ice sheet that's much more
stable and less mobile.
And so the differential motion initiates stresses
and that causes fracturing.
So that's also a weak zone which can
accelerate the forward motion.
And so, given all of this background, which
I updated since ARIM, are that it's worthwhile
considering a very high end of a low probability scenario, which
is potentially of interest to stakeholders that are managing
or planning to construct long lived infrastructure,
things like bridges or tunnels or other types
of infrastructure that are meant to last more than a century.
And therefore, we put together this ARIM scenario,
which was based on basically the DeConto and Pollard
model of that period supplemented
by other studies that came up with similar conclusions,
assuming the possibility of a West Antarctic ice sheet
instability setting in toward the end of the 21st century
and estimates based on expert judgment estimated less than 3%
likelihood that such a scenario could happen by 2100.
And in a revised model of DeConto and his colleagues
suggest that such instabilities might set in later
in the 22nd century, past 2150.
So not to be forgotten, I mean these things.
At the current rate we're going as far
as introducing more greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, that
type of scenario becomes more likely, starting
in the mid or even later 2100s.
And it may have serious consequences
for cities along the coast.
And turning our attention to New York City,
this is simply an overview of the NPCC projections of 2015
and that of the ARIM scenario in 2019.
And to be pointed out, for those that
are not familiar with this, New York City
is actually using the NPCC projections of the 2015 report
in city planning.
It is currently the official sea level rise
scenarios for the city.

And one of the consequences is an expansion
of the 100 year flood zone.
And in this particular image, we are
looking at Jamaica Bay and the extension of the JFK airport,
and one of the runways is extending into Jamaica Bay.
And the purplish areas are the current 100 year flood zone
as given by FEMA.
And the various colors of blue to green
represent increasing expansion of the 100 year flood zone
with the scenarios of the 2020s, '50s, and 2080s,
and 2100, according to the official NPCC scenario.
And the other zones in the hatched sort of tan
and the dark red area extending further inland
is what the ARIM scenario would indicate.
And the reason that much of the flood zone
is already there in terms of what
is shown by the purplish FEMA projections
is simply because it's a matter of topography.
The further inland, you're going, the higher you're going,
so that a given increment of sea level rise
is not extending as far inland as in the first meter or two
of sea level rise.

But more of concern to people living in these neighborhoods
is the tidal, the monthly tidal flood zone, in other words,
at full and new moon or even during not even
a major coastal storm, but even a bad storm,
these people are already subjected to monthly flooding
in some neighborhoods.
And so that just goes again to show the same color code
as before, how much farther inland
the monthly tidal zone would extend.
And while this area shows the of greatest amount
of neighborhoods that could be flooded under these conditions,
there are other neighborhoods elsewhere
scattered around the city that are similarly exposed,
but not over such a wide area as that around Jamaica Bay.
And these are some of the steps that the city is already
undertaking.
Some of these are traditional things
like raising bulkheads, seawalls, tied barriers.
We're broadening the shoreline.
We're creating multi-use public spaces.
I'll show pictures of that in a minute.
And we're elevating streets in some neighborhoods,
I mean mostly broad channel, I think.
And maybe in the Rockaways.
And there's salt marsh restoration underway, sand dune
restoration.
The laws of flood proofing buildings
have strengthened have gotten stricter.
And there's some attempt at buyouts,
maybe Belle Scotia might mention something
of that in Staten Island.
I know it's not very popular in other parts of Long Island.
And eventually we may have to consider managed relocation.
But at the moment, you know coastal retreat or abandonment,
those are dirty words.
People want to stay in their neighborhoods
for the most part.
And here are examples of what the city is
planning on the Lower East Side, extending the parks
and setting up a berm, which is a sort of like, think
of it as a high dune kind of barrier against flooding.
DANIEL BADER: Just to be clear that extension
is away from the city into the river, right?
VIVIEN GORNITZ: Yeah, it will expand into the river.
This is north of the seaport, by the way
but there are other plans, as we'll see in a minute.
This is now in the Dumbo area in Brooklyn Bridge Park.
And the grass has grown a lot higher since then.
They're letting some of the old piers remain.
And this is to dampen the waves and soften coastal erosion
during major storms.
But doesn't do much against the surge though,
but it does help protect against the ill effects of wave action.
And here's something planned for the South Battery Park.
This is north of Battery Park, heading toward the World
Financial Center.
It's one of my favorite summer hangouts.
And I'm rather disappointed at this plan thing,
and there's a lot of community opposition to a lot
of these proposals by the way.
Because if anyone has ever wandered around that area,
it's beautiful parkland, nicely landscaped in a very natural
looking way, incorporating boulders and old piers,
along with plantings of native vegetation and ones that are
I presume that are saltwater resistant as well.
And now you're getting this sort of barricade,
sort of like just--
sort of reminds me of a sort of what
you might expect surrounding a medieval castle or something.
And here you have efforts of marsh restoration
of Jamaica Bay.
And then the street raising, particularly in Broad Channel,
which is the community in the middle of Jamaica Bay that's
probably the most vulnerable to the tidal flooding even today.
And this is just sort of a listing
of some of the progress, city programs that mentioned
the NPCC in particular.
So just to show that our work has a good practical use, being
put to practical use.
And this is just additional resources.
