JANELLE KNOX-HAYES: Hello, my name is Janelle Knox-Hayes.
I'm an associate professor in the Department of Urban Studies
and Planning.
And this presentation is titled, "The Compound Risk
of Heat and COVID-19 in New York City, Examining Riskscapes,
Physical and Social Factors and Interventions."
This is based off of a paper recently published
in the journal Local Environment with colleagues Juan Camilo
Osorio, Natasha Stamler, Maria Dombrov, Rose
Weiner, Mary-Hannah Smith, and Cynthia Rosenzweig.
And we analyze the nature of compound risk in New York City,
particularly considering the impacts
of built and natural factors that contribute to extreme heat
within the city.
So this paper is a good case study
for understanding the dynamics of heat
in cities that many cities are facing as they confront climate
change and how these can be exacerbated by something
like a global pandemic.
The study is built on several research questions.
What are the places of highest risk for both heat exposure
and COVID-19 exposure in the city of New York.
What is the relationship between environmental, built,
and social infrastructure, and sociodemographic
characteristics in enhancing this risk,
and are the neighborhoods most impacted by COVID-19
also more exposed to the compound risks of extreme heat?
We analyzed this phenomenon through the lens of riskscapes.
Riskscapes look at the ways in which different risk factors
can compound for specific individuals or specific groups
and create heightened vulnerability.
So, for example, we looked at multiple measures,
including economic inequality, health outcomes
as measured by COVID case counts,
built environmental risks, including
crowded housing, social support, and natural environmental harms
such as extreme heat, access to or lack of access
to air conditioning and cooling spaces, access to open space
with shade, and we combine these into analysis
to understand the origins, interdependencies,
and spillovers between risk clusters.
The unique challenge that's presented by COVID-19
is that pre-pandemic cooling strategies
such as cooling centers did not meet physical distancing
requirements for COVID during the summers of 2020 and 2021
in particular.
Vulnerable communities had less access to green space.
And what we find in our data is that rental overcrowding--
not just net density, but rental overcrowding in particular--
contributes to COVID-- increased COVID case rates.
And then, finally, social determinants of health,
such as where individuals are living,
how they're working, what quality of nutrition they have,
exacerbate both heat and COVID exposure.
These show several key factors.
The first is a measurement of land surface temperature
within New York City.
And you can see an interesting consolidation of heat impacts
as you move from the lowest quintile in light yellow
to the most highest quintile in bright red.
You can see that Staten Island has areas of extreme heat.
There's some concentration in the Bronx.
There's also areas of Northern Queens that
are quite severely impacted.
And these, at first glance, also correspond
with a graphic on the right showing
COVID case counts from lowest quintile to highest quintile,
lowest being in the lighter shaded blue and highest being
in the darker shaded blue with high areas of concentration
for COVID in these same areas.
So Staten Island, some parts of Long Island, in Queens,
and Bronx, northern Queens, and South Bronx,
and then also very little vulnerability in Manhattan
even though Manhattan is one of the denser areas.
And what the graphic in the bottom shows
is COVID case rates.
What our research team quickly identified
is that there were three predominant waves
over this time period between the onset of the pandemic
in early 2020 to where we concluded our data
analysis in late 2021.
And each of the waves of the pandemic
had different characteristics.
So different strains were predominant.
There were different public interventions.
And we try to capture those in analyzing each of the waves
asynchronously.
But we also can identify what we think spatially commonalities
across the waves.
So we focus our analysis on the spatial characteristics
of both heat vulnerability as well as
vulnerability as identified through these higher COVID case
counts.
The study used a combination of spatial analysis,
the creation with statistical techniques of compound risk
indices, and then an evaluation of interventions
to make recommendations for the city of areas that
are high risk, but don't have adequate support,
as well as areas that are low risk,
but have good support through interventions.
We used a combination of data for this study
including land-surface temperature data from Landsat
satellite data.
We used COVID seven-day average data
from the New York City Department of Health and Mental
Hygiene.
We created heat-vulnerability indices,
which included the access to tree canopy greenery
and vegetation density the nature of impervious land cover
and then how much open space access each of our census
tracts had access to.
Finally, we use the American Community Survey, ACS,
to gather demographic, socioeconomic, and housing
factor data.
Using the 30 individual variables
that are detailed in the appendix of the paper,
we used factor analysis to establish
several distinct factor groups, which
helps us to identify the nature of built social, environmental,
and health vulnerability.
These included vegetation density, impervious surface
distance to greenspace, rental overcrowding, mixed density,
the distance to public cooling, and social vulnerability.
And the supplementary materials in the paper detail
how each of these scaled variables were created
and which individual variables were
integrated to create these measures and factor groups.
This table shows one of the first ordinary least squares
regressions that we ran comparing heat effects
and built-in social factors.
So you see the variables in the left column.
We had looked at natural environment,
including vegetation density and impervious surface-built
environment, including distance to greenspace,
rental overcrowding, mixed density,
public cooling distance, and the percent of residents that lack
AC, and then social factors, including social
vulnerability--
which is a scaled index--
the percent of residents that are Black and the percent
of residents that are Hispanic.
And this middle column, LST Heat,
shows the results of the regression,
particularly that vegetation density and impervious surface
have a negative correlation with heat,
the areas, interestingly, that have
greater amounts of vegetation density and impervious surface
have higher heat, and then with respect to the built
environment, areas that have rental overcrowding
have the highest levels of heat, areas of mixed density
have less heat.
And here, it was very important for us
to define rental overcrowding and mixed density
because they're capturing different phenomenon.
Mixed density is really getting at the principle
of the 15-minute city, which is emblematic of the Manhattan
area where all of the services that an individual needs--
their employment, their child care, food resources,
entertainment, recreational resources,
are within 15 minutes of where they live.
So even though the city is very dense, it, during the pandemic,
was less exposed to heat and also less
vulnerable to COVID because of the nature
of the infrastructure it has access to
as well as the broader socioeconomic supports.
In contrast, areas in the Bronx, Brooklyn, Queens,
and Staten Island had much higher rates
of rental overcrowding.
So these might be multifamily houses or single-family houses,
but they're more likely to have more individuals living
in a unit and those individuals are also
less likely to have immediate access
to the kinds of basic needs that they might have,
such as employment, food resources, child care,
education, et cetera, so they were
more likely to have to commute out of the area
where they were residing.
These areas, interestingly, are also
areas with higher heat, which perhaps, explains
the negative correlation between vegetation
density and impervious surface.
A lot of this is tied up in Manhattan,
which has very dense infrastructure,
has low vegetation density, and high impervious surface,
but is also not one of the hottest areas of the city.
And then social vulnerability, which
is including measures, such as lack of insurance and language
isolation, is another significant positive correlate
of high temperatures.
So if we look at this graphic again,
you can see the areas where we have both predominance
of Manhattan having low vegetation density
and high impervious surface, but lower heat
scores than other areas within the city.
And then areas such as areas in Brooklyn, Queens, and the Bronx
have higher social vulnerability and higher heat scores
and as we see on the right also have higher COVID case counts.
Table three shows the multiple multivariate regression
analysis of heat, vegetation density,
and impervious surface.
And again, what this shows, looking
at the variables on the right, the
built environmental and social factors.
And then the regression coefficients
across the next three columns for heat,
distance to green space is a high predictor
of areas that are hotter in the city.
Rental overcrowding is another significant factor
in determining areas that are hotter in the city.
Mixed density has areas that are less hot in the city.
And then areas that are closer to
public cooling infrastructure also are less hot,
which might suggest that the infrastructure is needed
in places that are hotter.
And then, finally, social vulnerability
is also a predominant predictor of heat.
With respect to vegetation density,
areas that are farther from green space
have lower vegetation density.
Areas of mixed density also have lower vegetation density.
But then areas that have public cooling or a greater distance
to public cooling also have less vegetation.
And finally, individuals of residential neighborhoods
with higher percentages of Hispanic residents
are more likely to have vegetation density, which,
again, is suggesting, when we think
about the structure of the city, that these residents are not
living in Manhattan.
With respect to impervious surface, we see similar trends.
The distance to green space is a positive correlate
of higher impervious surface.
Rental crowding is also a correlate of higher impervious
surface as is mixed density.
The distance to public cooling is not
in areas of higher impervious surface.
And social vulnerability-- the percent
of residents that are Black and percent of residents that
are Hispanic are also areas with lower impervious surface,
which, again explains the dynamic between Manhattan
and other areas of the city.
Manhattan, which has greater impervious surface and less
vegetation density, is not as vulnerable as other parts
of the city.
So Manhattan explains a lot of the dynamics around density
and vulnerability.
Inside Manhattan, there's more mixed density,
meaning more commercial, residential spaces.
It's also closer to cooling centers,
and for many residents, they're closer to greenspace.
Central Park, obviously, plays a large role
in providing that kind of access as well
as the different riverwalks that exist around Manhattan.
Outside of Manhattan, there are areas
of lower impervious surface, but more rental crowding
and greater levels of social vulnerability.
These graphics show areas within the city
where there's major open space.
And you can see also here, highlighted
vulnerable neighborhoods that are farther
from the open space.
And then you see both in the upper graphic, the nature
of vegetation density--
again, not much vegetation density in Manhattan.
But this is somewhat deceptive because many residents
have access to Central Park and riverwalks.
In contrast you see quite a bit of vegetation
on Staten Island and Long Island,
as well as in Eastern Queens, but these
can be areas that are more vulnerable because
of the nature of the housing stock.
And then, finally, with impervious surface,
we see that Manhattan has a considerable amount
of impervious surface.
It's very dense, but this doesn't necessarily
mean higher heat vulnerability.
The buildings provide a lot of shade on the ground.
It's almost a built environmental ecosystem
that leads to cooler temperatures within the city.
And then for COVID case rates across the pandemic,
Manhattan had lower COVID case rates
because of the range of other measures
that are important in considering COVID.
Table four represents the multiple multivariate
regression analysis of COVID-19 across three waves.
And here, it was important for us
to consider the waves independently
because of the different public measures that were implemented
between the waves, as well as the different strands
of the virus, different levels of contagion,
and different seasonality of these waves.
The first wave was a summer wave,
and you can see both the trends already discussed
about the nature of vulnerability between Manhattan
and areas outside of Manhattan that may be less dense
but have greater social vulnerability.
These areas across the first and second wave
had higher COVID case rates with respect
to built and social environmental factors.
In the first wave, which was a summer wave,
the distance to greenspace, as well as rental overcrowding
were predominant predictors of areas of higher COVID case
counts.
And it's important to remember here
there were lockdowns, measures in place for social distancing,
and so for these residents that couldn't
get outside of their buildings or couldn't get out
into green space--
recreational space-- this was particularly difficult
for these neighborhoods.
And the second wave of the pandemic,
which was a winter wave, a bit of that vulnerability
is reversed.
We don't see as significant a factor for the distance
to green space, again, which signals this relationship
between heat and COVID-19.
And then looking at the social factors,
social vulnerability is significant across both
the first and second wave, and that the two waves combine
is a predictor of higher COVID case rates.
But the strongest predictors are the racial variables,
so percent of residents that are Black and percent
residents that are Hispanic.
And we can see in the first wave,
there was a significant influence
for both predominantly Black and predominantly Hispanic
neighborhoods.
These were the worst impacted.
Interestingly, something switches
between the first and second wave such that Black residents
were less vulnerable in the second wave,
whereas Hispanic residents remained increasingly
vulnerable to the pandemic.
I'll come back and discuss this more in a minute.
And then with respect to the third wave,
we, unfortunately, were not able to geocode the data such
that we could identify exactly where individuals
were vaccinated.
But the third wave corresponds after the vaccinations.
And here in the reversal of many of the vulnerabilities,
particularly around the built-in social environmental factors,
we can see the strength of and positive impact
of vaccinations.
So particularly areas with rental overcrowding
actually had lower case rates in the third wave
as well as those communities that lacked AC.
Unfortunately, the Hispanic residents
are also incredibly vulnerable in the third wave.
So the major wave one findings are
that temperature and COVID-19 cases are concentrated
across the pandemic, particularly
the first and second waves in the same neighborhoods.
Greenspace is not only for mediating heat,
but it's also for mitigating the impact of the pandemic.
And then social vulnerability, which
we measured by median household income, language isolation,
the percent of residents that lack a diploma,
and the percent that lack health insurance,
is also highly significant across all of the waves
in predicting areas with higher COVID case counts.
These graphics show, on the left, the nature of the COVID
pandemic and its distribution in quintiles
across areas of the city in the first wave of the pandemic.
And then what you see is the correspondence
between this wave of the pandemic.
And in the top right hand graphic,
the distance to cooling interventions,
areas of higher COVID case counts
also have less access to cooling interventions.
And then, especially, you see the correspondence
and correlation between areas with higher COVID case counts
and the percent that lack AC in the bottom-right graphic,
particularly highlighting those areas of North Staten Island
and then Northern Bronx, mid-Queens, and Southern
Brooklyn, as well as Long Island.
And then with respect to the distance
to open space and social vulnerability, this graphic,
similarly, if you look at the COVID case
counts both for the first and second wave
and then the distance to green or green or open space, which
is shown here, as well as distance
to social vulnerability, areas of the city
with higher social vulnerability also had higher case counts.
And particularly in that first summer wave,
areas with distance to open space
had higher COVID case counts.
With respect to the wave one and two findings,
areas with the highest COVID rates
were areas where Black and African-American residents have
historically settled due to redlining and urban renewal
policies, which in part might explain
some of the racial disparities that we
see across the analysis.
The difference in racial outcomes
for predominantly Black neighborhoods in predominantly
Hispanic neighborhoods between the first and second waves
is difficult to explain with our data.
But we do think that this is an interesting finding that
deserves more attention.
It could be a combination of public intervention,
a behavioral change that occurred because of heightened
awareness during the first wave of the pandemic on how severe
and how severely impacted predominantly Black
communities were, or there could be other epidemiological causes
that contributed to this transition
between the first and second waves.
But if there is particularly public intervention
or behavioral change that was successful in limiting
the impacts in the second wave of the pandemic
for predominantly Black communities,
it would be important to understand these.
And one of the things we also looked at in our study
was the nature of work provided.
Hispanic workers contribute to a larger share
of essential services, as well as cleaning services,
whereas Black workers within the city
contribute to a greater share of transportation services.
And so there may have been a difference
in exposure and vulnerability between these two
sets of service workers during the second wave
of the pandemic, which explain why Hispanic populations are
still highly vulnerable, whereas Black populations were
less vulnerable during the second wave of the pandemic.
And then, finally, rental overcrowding
contributes to higher COVID rates and also corresponds
to higher food insecurity and poor access
to social services and amenities.
These graphics show the COVID case
counts across the first and second wave
and then on the left with the two waves combined.
And again, you can see that some areas
have common vulnerability.
But there are also some significant transitions.
In the first wave, East Queens is predominantly impacted,
and then a lot of impact in the Northern Bronx.
This shifts to the Southern Bronx in the second wave,
as well as to Central Queens and areas of Brooklyn.
And then all of Staten Island is severely impacted.
And as you combine the two waves in the left graphic,
you start to see areas that are going
to be significant in generating the compound risk index.
These two graphics show the COVID daily case counts
for waves one and two highlighting
with the shaded blue quintiles four and five,
measuring the highest COVID case counts,
and then overlays these over the top of a map
showing percent of Black or African-American community
by census tract and percent Hispanic or Latino residents
by census tract.
And again, here, you can see the transition
with COVID wave one highlighted in the left graphic
corresponding with high correlation to areas in South
Queens and in Central Brooklyn, as well as North Staten
Island and then North Bronx where
we have higher percentages of Black and African-American
communities.
And then in the diagram on the right,
we see the second wave of the pandemic, fourth and fifth
quintiles, which are measuring highest COVID case counts,
overlaid over the percent of Hispanic or Latino residents
by census tract.
And you can see the high correspondence
with areas in the Bronx, in Central Queens, and then
South Brooklyn, as well as across Staten Island
for these groups.
And looking from left to right you really
can see the transition that occurred
between the first and second waves of the pandemic.
So this graphic shows COVID daily case counts
for waves one and two and rental overcrowding and mixed density.
And again, you can see that areas
with higher rental overcrowding in the top-right graphic
correspond with areas that have higher COVID case
counts, whereas areas with higher mixed density,
particularly highlighting Manhattan here,
correspond with areas with lower COVID case counts, which again,
really suggests it's not just dense areas that
are vulnerable.
It's the nature of density.
And this is something that's really
significant for urban planners to consider,
especially as they try to achieve urban designs that
enable residents to have all of the basic necessities
that they need much more readily available to them.
This is beneficial both for heat exposure,
as well as for pandemic exposure.
Wave three also suggested significant findings.
Geocoded data for COVID vaccines were not available.
Nevertheless, the COVID wave-three data
show the efficacy of vaccines in reducing vulnerabilities.
Most predictors of vulnerability were not significant
anymore except for heat and percent Hispanic population
in the third wave of the pandemic.
Finally, we took all of these measures and combined them
using factor analysis into a compound risk index,
which combines heat, COVID-19, density--
particularly rental overcrowding-- social
vulnerability, the nature of natural heat exposure
in the natural environment, and then
some of the built-in social-environmental factors.
This graphic shows the high-compound risk index
with the highest compound risk quintile shaded in red
and overlaps it for the COVID case counts for wave three.
And again, here, you can visually see that shift away
and that the shaded red areas don't
correspond with areas that have the highest COVID case counts.
So in the third wave of the pandemic,
vaccinations were able to shift the pandemic away
from areas that were otherwise more vulnerable.
Finally, we looked at interventions
that the city was using to combat heat.
These included cool streets, which
might be tree-based shade and flowing water.
In the pandemic, the most useful interventions
were not just public-health interventions, but also
ones that were used to shape the natural
and built social environment that residents had exposure to.
Strategies are needed to address underlying natural-built
and social-environmental, as well as social factors
to address underlying causes of these different riskscapes.
These graphics show the compound risk index on the left,
and you can see with the dark red, the highest
shaded, the darkest red, the highest quintile,
highest-risk areas.
So the graphic in the top right overlays
the city's interventions onto the city streets.
And so here, you see hash in red,
the top COVID case counts, and then
which pools were open in the summer of 2020 highlighted
in blue, open and cool streets in the summer of 2020,
also highlighted and shaded in a dark blue, and then
the areas of major open space with vegetation density
within the city.
And we overlay onto this in the graphic
in the bottom right, key neighborhoods.
So the red neighborhoods are high risk.
They have the highest risk, according to our risk index,
but they also have the highest distance to cooling.
And so these are the areas the city should target
with further interventions.
In orange, we shaded areas that are high risk, according
to the risk index, but have a lower distance
to cooling infrastructure.
And here, the city might just think
about additional strategies or interventions that could
be deployed for these areas.
And then, finally, in green, we have
areas that are low risk, but low distance to cooling
infrastructure, where the city might consider shifting
resources if there is scarcity of resources in creating
future public interventions.
And what we also finally see in the compound risk track
is that there are identifiable areas of heightened compound
risk, and these particularly highlight the areas
between Queens and Bronx of what is often considered
the Back Bay of New York.
And then, finally, as we can see in the left of this diagram,
according to our compound risk index,
the most vulnerable areas of the city
are Kingsbridge Heights, Parkchester, Concourse,
Soundview, Mott Haven, Port Morris and Rikers
Island in the Bronx, Flushing, Corona, North Corona, Jackson
Heights, Elmhurst, and Flushing, Richmond Hill and Jamaica
in Queens, Sunset Park, Borough Park, Coney Island,
and Brighton Beach in Brooklyn, and Stapleton in Staten Island.
Several of these areas, like Sunset Park and Mott Haven
and Port Morris, are known for the disproportionate
concentration of environmental burdens
and historic environmental justice issues,
given their location in New York City's designated
significant maritime and industrial areas.
What's less known is the heat impacts
in other residential communities located near inland
industrial areas like Jamaica or Maspeth in Queens or Soundview
in the Bronx or low-income immigrant communities
like North Corona, Corona, and Jackson Heights in Queens,
and waterfront neighborhoods like Flushing in Queens.
These are the areas where the city
should dedicate considerable investment
to address compound risks.