PROFESSOR: Hello.
Greetings from Manila, Philippines.
I am Dr. Emma Porio, professor at Ateneo de Manila University
and Science Research Fellow of the Manila Observatory.
I co-chair the National Panel of Technical Experts
of the Climate Change Commission,
and also of the International Climate Change Council
Adaptation Workstream.
Leadership and governance is the foundational base
for resilience to establish the four pillars of resilience,
one, human development, two, sustainable local economy,
three, infrastructure, and four, environmental sustainability.
Today, I want to talk about Metro Manila aspiring
to be inclusive, resilient, and sustainable amidst climate
and disaster risks.
If you want to know more about Metro Manila and our work,
please visit our websites, coastal cities at risk
has three.
One, resiliencetoolkit.ph, two, coastalcitiesatrisk.com, three,
link three slash cigar page.
You can find our partners logos at the bottom of the screen.
The Ateneo de Manila works with Manila Observatory
and the National Resilience Council in partnership
with many national agencies, local government units,
university partners, civil society,
community-based organization, and private sector.
Working towards transformative adaptation and urban resilience
entails these principles of community engagement.
One, there is power in numbers.
By being together, we can be more.
Two, we need to innovate.
But to innovate is to collaborate.
To collaborate is also to navigate the systems that
are well interconnected.
I start my presentation in Metro Manila with three key points.
One, the 2022 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change,
or IPCC report summary for policymakers
highlighted that one, climate change impacts
has lead to increasing poverty levels,
widening inequality, and creating new vulnerabilities,
especially among the most exposed vulnerable nations
and populations like women, children, elderly,
capabilities, and LBQTIs.
To the twin crisis of our time, climate and social inequality,
exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic,
have intensified vulnerability among those in already marginal
and disadvantaged communities.
And three, there is a great imbalance in the way we
human beings have extracted from the Earth's resources
and our consumption-driven lifestyles.
And at the rate we are consuming the Earth's resources,
we need three planets to sustain our lifestyle.
The Philippines is highly at risk country
to climate change impacts.
In 2014, after Haiyan, the Philippines
ranked number one in the World Risk Index.
In 2019, we are already ranked number nine.
But in 2022, we are ranked number one again,
owing to the so many damages and losses
due to typhoons, heavy rainfalls, and floods.
This is the river elevation index map
of Metro Manila on your right.
Metro Manila sits in three flood basins, the Pasig Marikina
flood Basin, the West Manggahan flood Basin,
and the [INAUDIBLE] flood basins in Caloocan, Malabon, Navotas,
and Valenzuela cities.
Metro Manila's social, political, and economic profile
has terrific implications for risk governance and resilience.
We have 18 million population with a daytime population of 18
to 20 million.
We have an informality that is 45-60% of the urban economy
while Metro Manila accounts for 37% of the GDP.
And we have a highly decentralized governance
with 17 local government units and one Metro Manila
Development Authority.
Metro Manila is vulnerable to one, sea level rise,
land subsidence, coastal flooding, and earthquakes.
Complicating the impacts of these hazards
are fragmented policies and governance.
These are the coastal inundation maps
of Metro Manila on the left and Metro Cebu
on the right by 2050.
Actually, we do not have to wait for 2050.
Heavy rainfall [INAUDIBLE] causes tremendous flooding
to our cities.
The middle map shows the projected sea level rise
by 2050, which will affect 64 of the 81 provinces
and 54% of the 1,610 municipalities
in the Philippines.
These are the maps of Metro Manila's shifting patterns
of informality and vulnerability between 1997 and 2018.
Informality and vulnerability seem
to have dispersed all over the metropolis
compared to the 1990s.
Thus, in 2018, the red color signifying informality
and vulnerability seemed to be spreading
all over the metropolis.
To understand metro Manila's climate change vulnerability,
we need to do an intersectional analysis of vulnerability,
adaptation, and resilience.
As shown in this slide, the interaction
of the geophysical, social, and political economic forces
have increased our vulnerability to climate impacts,
but at the same time, it can help us also
build our adaptive capacity and resilience.
This slide also shows that the lens of intersectionality
facilitates the relationship between vulnerability,
adaptation, and resilience, especially
among vulnerable groups the climate
disasters in Metro Manila.
Intersectionality argues that the interaction
of different social locations, race, ethnicity, gender, class,
sexuality, age, disability, migration status, religion,
and geography, political, economic, and social and
cultural geographies shape an individual, or group's access
to resources and privileges.
These interactions occur within the context
of connected systems and structures of power loss
policies, state governments, and other political economic
institutions.
Through these structures and processes,
interdependent forms of privilege and oppression
are created and reproduced.
Women, especially of color, who single-handedly
manage their own households suffer multiple interlocking
disadvantages before local and national governance structures
in securing basic services and livelihoods,
especially those in informal settlements
with no security of tenure.
In doing intersectional analysis of vulnerability adaptation
and resilience, the theoretical lens of [? Moser ?] et al
argued that there are six conditions
necessary for transformative adaptation to occur.
Policies, practices, and resource flows,
and the underlying relationships,
connections, power dynamics, and the mindsets that
are embedded in the formulation and implementation
of these policies, practices, and resource flows.
To implement the six conditions for transformative adaptation,
this is our theory of change in moving
climate science to action.
We need one, enablers in governance system,
knowledge management, and people,
which will give us the output like HEVC maps, climate
and disaster risk assessments, and partnerships.
These will result into impacts like reduction of disaster
losses and outcomes like advance knowledge
for CCADRR resilience.
To move science to climate action,
we are guided by the following principles.
One, the pareto principle that states we must have 20% input
and give 80% output.
But right now our systems seems to be giving
80% input and 20% output.
Number two, by being together, we can be more.
Number three, to innovate is to collaborate.
But to collaborate is to navigate
within and across systems.
Our strategy of achieving transformative adaptations
is vertical, horizontal, and intersectional
by institutionalizing the resilience
agenda at the local universities,
the LUs and Resilience Council at the National Resilience
Council, the Office of Civil Defense,
the Department of Interior and Local Government,
the Climate Change Commission, and at the Regional
the Asian climate change consortium at [? Meer ?]
and global, the [INAUDIBLE] GFDRR.
We bridge climate science to policy and practice
to translate the action research through the three
principles of DDR.
One, we must co-generate the knowledge
with our stakeholders.
Two, we must co-create the capacities of scientists,
professionals, and practitioners,
leading to co-ownership, co-stewardship,
and co-benefits.
We link the climate and disaster science of policy and practice
through resilience scorecards, resilience plans,
and through national and local policies
for climate and disaster resilience.
This is the National Resilience Scorecard.
If we do all this, there will be one resilient local government
units, reduced damage and losses,
and development continuity.
Having done this resilience innovations in Metro Manila,
we learned one, that climate and disaster
risks are contextually driven, and drivers of risks
are continually evolving.
Two, transdisciplinary research tools and innovations
for resilience are extremely needed.
Three, we need to advance deepened knowledge and tools
for resilience governance.
We have also learned to distinguish
between incremental adaptation that does not re-engineer
the system from transformational adaptation, which
is systems-driven.
For example, installing solar powered potable water system
does not really change the dynamics of service delivery
to the poor.
But designing and implementing a systems-driven program
like that at Valenzuela, city integrated food production
and social housing programs for the poor,
results into a transformation of the political economic lives
of the resettled families and their community governance
system.
Metro Manila implemented the following eight innovations
for transformative adaptation.
One, producing actionable science for decision making.
Two, climate and disaster risk-informed development
planning.
Three, disaggregating and defining resilience
through CCADRR convergence.
Four, visualizing risk and applied systems
thinking for resilience.
Five, unpacking resilience for risk governance
at local, national, regional, and global levels.
Six, producing champions for climate and disaster
resilience.
Seven, transdisciplinary and intersectionality
in science-informed disaster risk assessment or [? sidra. ?]
And crafting public, private, people partnerships
in resilience building.
The SDGs is a key instrument towards resilient, inclusive,
and sustainable development.
The National Development Authority
of the Philippine government leads the SDG implementation
while the local government units ensure the achievement
of the 17 SDG goals.
The attainment of the SDGs requires
a concerted, multisectoral, and multi-stakeholder effort
at the local, national, regional, and global levels.
In the Philippines, we have learned that one,
transformative adaptation surpasses climate
proofing to deliberately changing systems
and achieving more.
Two important levers for transformative adaptation
demands that we understand A, underlying social relationships
and power, B, centering our values of justice, equity,
and inclusion for humans and non-humans.
Three, it is our invitation to you
to be inspired, to reimagine, to think differently,
to act, to change the scale and depth of adaptation actions
towards just adaptation.
Therefore, to achieve transformative adaptation
and resilience, we need an integrated, interdisciplinary,
and transdisciplinary, and multiscalar approaches
to risk governance that will one, establish
coherence in the introduction of structural and nonstructural
measures of adaptation.
Number two, we must design resilience frameworks
to address the dynamic interactions between sectors.
Number three, we contextualize gender generation
and social geographies to reflect the conditions
in formal and informal sectors and economies.
Number four, we must be problem-focused,
solutions-driven, and doing our interdisciplinary
and [INAUDIBLE] intersectional analysis
towards transformative adaptation and resilience.
Thank you.
Let us work together towards a resilient, inclusive,
and sustainable future.
[MUSIC PLAYING]