
JIM ALOISI: Hello, everyone.
I'm Jim Aloisi and I teach urban transportation planning
and policy at DUSP here at MIT.
And I'm here today to give you my perspective
on the topic of transportation sector decarbonization.
So it's no secret that the decarbonization
of the transportation sector is a critical component
of our overall efforts to deal with and grapple
with climate change.
Transportation in the United States, as we see here,
has overtaken everything else in terms of its impact
on carbon emissions.
And that trend continues despite the recent pandemic.
You can see here the transportation sector being
far and away the chief driver, no pun intended,
of energy-related CO2 according to use sectors.
So it's important to think about this sector
as we are serious about reducing carbon emissions generally.
I wanted to give you a brief overview of issues.
We are all talking these days about the transition
from the internal combustion engine to electric vehicles.
That is a critical part of this country's overall efforts
to become net-zero carbon over time.
And it's a critical element of it.
But we have to acknowledge, at the same time,
that this transition to EVs is an adoption process that
will probably be slower, and more
uneven, and unequal than we currently think.
Now what can we do about that?
We in the public sector, those of us
who have come from the public sector
or are looking at the public sector, federal, state
governments for leadership, they can't control, really,
EV adoption.
They can accelerate it with subsidies and rebates,
but that's largely within control of the private sector
manufacturing vehicles at an affordable price
and with the utility sector, the public sector,
and the private sector collaborating on
not just a national charging grid, but a local one.
In the meantime, there's a definite time value
to carbon reductions.
The more you can reduce carbon in the short term,
even at smaller scale, the better off
you are because these emissions are cumulative over time.
So if we want to reach our goals,
finding short-term ways to reduce emissions,
even at modest scale, is a very effective tool in the toolbox.
And I'm going to talk briefly about mode
shift from automobile to either transit, or cycling, or rail
as one effective way to do that.
You may have seen the movie Wall-E,
and I talk about this transition to electric
being the Wall-E effect, something that works really
well, but the end results leave a lot to be desired.
And if you think about the transition to EVs,
even though that provides significant carbon benefits,
it will be accompanied by a lot of undesirable outcomes.
Those outcomes relate to the fact
that electric vehicles are still part
of an autocentric transportation system that continues
to emit particulate matter emissions, which
are very serious, that continues to use carbon in connection
with all of the features it relies on,
including parking facilities, et cetera, roads, bridges.
And so we need to think about the inclusion of mode shift
as a carbon reduction strategy.
That will require better transit and rail frequencies,
better transit reliability, quality, and affordable fares
in order to get 10% to 15% of people
to move from driving to transit and rail.
I will talk later about the topic of equity in connection
with our decarbonization efforts.
And I also will talk briefly about the one
big unanswered question, which is when we gradually
do transition to electric, our gas tax revenues,
both nationally and at the state level,
will reduce to a point to zero when we're fully successful.
And we need a plan to fill that revenue gap
or we're going to be in big trouble when that day occurs.
Now the case for a greater focus on mode shift
is tied to the short-term emissions reductions.
They require these investments in transit and rail
that I've talked about.
They also require a significant redesign
of the urban streetscape.
Because these emissions reductions can happen sooner,
they will have a more and measurable benefit
if we look at our efforts through the lens
of sustainability.
Now we've heard a lot very recently about COP27.
COP26 last year in Glasgow had very specific targets
on the transportation sector, COP27 actually did not.
But if we go back and look at what the UN Conference said
last year, their declaration was that a recognition that
alongside the shift to zero-emissions vehicles,
a sustainable future for the transportation sector
requires wider system transformation, including
support for active travel, public and shared transport.
And so I think that's a good sign.
I hope that nations begin to grapple with that.
At that same Glasgow conference, the C40 cities
issued a statement that's a sobering one.
Public transportation usage must double
in global cities over the next decade,
they're saying costing $208 billion in US dollars
a year from C40 cities.
Recently, at the United States federal level
and an important interdepartmental memorandum
of understanding was signed just before the fall
by the Department of Transportation and Energy,
and Housing and Urban Development, and EPA,
basically, where each of those parties
agrees to work closely with state and local officials
and the private sector to make substantial progress
toward implementing low and zero-carbon transportation
solutions.
And I think this is a really good national effort,
particularly when we see that they describe in that MOU
their federal mission to rapidly decarbonize.
And to rapidly decarbonize you have
to make targeted investments in a variety of things, including
land use planning and development patterns
and public transportation.
How do you accomplish greenhouse gas reductions
in the transportation sector?
Well, there are various ways to do it.
You can use technology, you can use taxation.
What I call end of tailpipe emissions
can be reduced by CAFE standards being applied
stringently, corporate average fuel economy
standards, by transportation climate initiatives that
attempt to cap and invest the use of carbon,
and by charging people more and hopefully
reducing their automobility with the gas tax.
Very politically controversial, but a tool in the toolbox.
You can have, obviously, the innovation
of the transition to EVs as a strategy
and direct interventions, like transit-oriented development
that begin to put more density near transit nodes.
That will require people to drive less and to mode shift.

You can use regional rail and bus rapid transit
modes to support that transit-oriented development
setting.
You can use technology as a way to reduce emissions.
Vehicle technology through efficiency and EVs,
fuel technology is another example
of ways to deal with the move to renewables
there's a sort of critical component, I think, of that.
And from a policy perspective you
can reduce automobility by charging people more.
VMT stands for vehicle miles traveled,
which is a way to charge people a fee for how long
they travel during the day, how many miles they travel.
You can offer people meaningful modal alternatives.
No one's going to shift from a car to a train,
or a car to a bus, or a car to a subway
unless that alternative is viable.
That means the scheduling is viable, it's affordable,
it's convenient.
Telecommuting is certainly-- we see work
from home exploding after the pandemic.
There are pros and cons to that, but it's
a way to reduce vehicular use.
And certainly car sharing models are another way
to think about reducing single-occupancy auto use that
will help tame and reduce emissions.
Now I just want to point out that we need to mind the gaps.
And one of the biggest gaps is the subject
of decarbonization equity.
Decarbonization alone does not address
and may worsen automobility externalities that
diminish public health, particularly particulate matter
emissions, what I call the tragedy
of the concrete commons.
Highway and road capacity is finite.
And that problem is not going to be solved.
And more EVs looks like more current vehicles
means more traffic congestion.
An autocentric approach to decarbonization
means that we're still subject to poor land use choices,
to transport injustice, and to many spatial income-based
disparities.
And finally, all of the consequences
of owning a car, even an EV, you need a place to park,
you need a highway or road to drive on, to build and maintain
all of those structures and infrastructure
is very carbon intensive, and we need to take that into account.
This is a map of Massachusetts showing
where particulate matter emissions are heaviest.
And no surprise, they're heaviest
in dense urban environments.
A Harvard study in 2020 linked COVID deaths
to particulate matter emissions, saying
that in communities in Massachusetts that
had long-term exposure to high levels of particulates,
there was a 15% higher measurable COVID mortality
rate.
And so those don't go away.
They may get reduced, but they don't go away
with electric vehicles.
So we need to confront that reality.
So that leads us, then, to ask how
can we grapple with decarbonization equity?
What does that term mean?
I think a decarbonization plan that relies on EV uptake
will require public subsidy to succeed.
We see that subsidy at the federal level
and at the state level.
Question, who receives those subsidies?
Largely, in especially in the early years,
it's going to be wealthier whiter
people who get those subsidies.
We need to think about that as an equity matter.
So what does subsidy equity mean and how can we achieve it?
It might mean providing dollar for dollars
public subsidy support for people in communities
who either can't afford to buy a car or own a car,
or who are reliant on public transportation.
Should we also insist on charging equity
and how would you define that?
If you think about the topic of charging equity,
you would ask these questions.
Is it reliable?
Does it work when I need it to?
Is it available?
Is it available near or where I live when I need it?
And is it affordable?
Is it available to me without a premium cost when I need it?
Answering those questions will help illuminate the topic
of public charging equity.
A working definition might be this.
Decarbonization equity is about eliminating greenhouse gas
emissions and particulate matter in a manner that
recognizes low income communities and communities
of color and nondrivers have disproportionately borne
the brunt of autocentricity.
And equity in this context means that these communities
should be prioritized in our policy making and our resource
allocation.
And I think if we think of this as a working definition,
we can think about varieties of policies in particular
and interventions that would balance
the scales toward equity in the decarbonization effort.
And I'll leave you with the unasked or unanswered questions
that need to be asked and answered
if we're going to have a successful transition away
from the internal combustion engine.
If our future is mostly going to be about EVs,
we need to have an answer to what's
the plan for replacing lost gas tax and TCI revenue.
In Massachusetts alone, that could be over a $1 billion.
What's the plan for ubiquitous EV charging stations?
Now the good news is the federal government
is providing a substantial amount
of money through the Biden administration's recent efforts
at passing successful bipartisan legislation
to states for long term--
a national long distance charging network.
But at the state and local levels,
more needs to be done to ensure ubiquitous charging
infrastructure that's fair and equitable.
What happens, for example, with respect to home charging
in urban areas where there aren't garages
and there's a lot of on-street parking?
How does that happen?
How do we ensure affordability?
And lastly, what are the policy levers
that we can use to avoid traffic congestion,
traffic congestion by multiples of EVs
rather than internal combustion engines?
And so those questions really do need to be answered.
Many of them are uncomfortable and politically difficult.
But if we're going to have a decarbonization strategy that
works fairly and effectively for people and for a larger
sustainability agenda, we need to confront that.
So I thank you for your time.
I hope this was illuminating.
I hope it raised questions for you
that you may not have thought about
and that you would hopefully give some more thought to as we
all work together to make sure that the transportation
sector's disproportionately negative impact on carbon
emissions is tamed and reduced in a way that
works sustainably.
Thank you very much.