JUAN CAMILO OSORIO: Hello, I'm Juan Camilo Osorio.
I'm a professor at Pratt Institute's Graduate Center
for Planning and the Environment where
I teach urban and community planning
students about climate action.
I'm also a Hub director and collaborator
with the Urban Climate Change Research Network
in Latin America.
In this introduction, I will frame for you
some of the opportunities, challenges, and implications
of adopting [? a ?] just transition frameworks in city
climate action.
For those of you who are not familiar with this approach,
the Movement Generation Justice and Ecology
Project and the Climate Justice Alliance
have created a model to synthesize the implications
on how to move away from extractive economies
toward regenerative economies.
This means replacing exploitation
of workers with cooperation, defying our reliance
on extraction, digging, and dumping with regeneration,
challenging the enclosure of wealth and power
with ecological and social well-being,
replacing consumerism and colonial mindsets with caring
and sacredness, and most importantly,
creating new forms of governance away from top-down militarism.
How do we get there?
And what is the connection with city climate action?
We need to strengthen the tools at hand
to make sure that climate change action plans in cities
are comprehensive in nature.
Plans need to address both climate change
mitigation goals associated with greenhouse gas emission
reductions, as well as adaptation needs
to protect everyone against severe weather events.
As much as we need to prioritize our response
to coastal flooding and sea level rise,
we have to balance plans to address other types of impacts,
like the urban heat island effect and drought
or severe rain downpours, hurricane level
winds, or erosion.
We also have to anticipate the unintended consequences
of infrastructure improvements, such as the need to prevent
gentrification and forced displacement because, if we
fail to guarantee that communities who live and have
suffered through the impacts of climate change cannot enjoy
the benefits of our actions, we will be failing our mission.
The task at hand is complex but not impossible.