
ANNE WHITE: So good morning, good day,
good afternoon, wherever you are.
It's a great pleasure to be here with you today
on this MOOC about climate change and cities.
My name is Anne White.
I'm a professor in the Department of Nuclear Science
and Engineering.
This is a short overview and something
to stimulate your ideas about how fission energy could
play a role in decarbonizing all sectors of the economy.
So let me advance this slide.
So we can responsibly and rapidly
expand the use of nuclear energy around the world.
Nuclear power is a carbon-free energy source
that has already played a major role in helping to avoid
CO2 emissions globally.
In fact, over the past 50 years, the use of nuclear power
has helped reduce global CO2 emissions
by about 74 gigatons, or nearly two years'
worth of our total global energy related emissions.
Right now, in the United States, nuclear provides about 20%
of our electricity.
And over 50% of the US carbon-free electricity today
comes from fission.
So we can't move backwards.
We can't really decarbonize the built environment, our cities,
today without nuclear.
And in fact, what we've seen are some case studies
is that when a reactor in the United States
shuts down, as has had happened over the last 10 years or so,
utilities will replace that nuclear power plant,
will replace the loss of electricity
by burning more coal and natural gas.
So in California and Florida, nuclear
was replaced by natural gas.
In Wisconsin, nuclear was replaced
by coal-fired generation.
And in Vermont, nuclear was replaced by electricity imports
from Canada and surrounding states.
And that might not all have been carbon-free electricity.
So nuclear can really immediately
help us impact decarbonization of electricity and heat
generation.
So a good first step for cities and in fighting climate change
is to keep nuclear power plants running.
So there's a $6 billion Department
of Energy Civil Nuclear Credit Program in the United States
that was signed into law by the president in November 2021.
In California, there have been multiple conversations
and votes in the legislature to continue Diablo Canyon.
There's been some good movements in Michigan and Illinois
to keep those plants operating as well.
Now, why do plants end up shutting down
in the first place?
Economics plays a major role.
Fission plants only enjoy some subsidies in a few states,
and these subsidies are not yet standard nationwide.
So how is MIT working with industry partners
to help them address those immediate economic needs?
A variety of ways.
And this is just one example from Professor Koroush Shirvan,
who does this work with MIT Quest.
Deep reinforcement learning can be
used to design more efficient nuclear reactors.
An AI-designed fuel layout for a boiling water reactor
was worked out, where fuel rods could be ideally positioned
around fixed water rods to help them burn more efficiently.
And so by identifying an optimal configuration,
they were able to extend the lifetime of the rods
in an assembly by about 5%.
Doesn't seem like much, but, in fact,
that can generate about $3 million in savings per year
if you scale that to a full reactor.
So nuclear energy for urban district heating applications
is also something around the world
that folks are looking at.
There's over 40 nuclear reactors that
do provide district heating in addition
to generating electricity.
New, small modular reactor designs
that have enhanced passive safety features
and require smaller capital investments
might be easier to deploy for sites for district heating.
And there's actually more than 300 new SMRs
plan to be deployed over the next 25 years by US industry.
And this is a photograph from Helsinki.
In that country, the Finnish industry
has announced a small modular reactor
for district heating back in 2020.
And in fact, this would be very valuable for their cities.
Most of Finland's district heating
is currently produced by burning coal, natural gas, wood fuels,
and peat.
So changing the game with small modular reactors
is a big, big step forward.
And this means that there could be massive growth opportunities
for nuclear in new markets.
The traditional zero-carbon fission impact
is, of course, on electricity and heat production.
But looking at the other pieces of the pie
where greenhouse gas emissions by economic sector occur,
fission energy is a low-cost dispatchable heat
source for industry in transportation, hydrogen,
or electrification; opens new doors for nuclear power
applications; and, in the agriculture sector,
by providing very high temperature for process heat,
fission heat could help us out with ammonia production,
hydrogen, or electrification.
So a lot of roles that can be played.
Very small modular reactors known as nuclear batteries
could be transformative for communities and businesses
worldwide because they can be co-located
and can be used for supply and demand.
These would be off grid, mobile, containerized production
and processing to help with agriculture, aquaculture,
pharmaceutical production, 3D printing, and data centers.
So these innovative plug and play
microreactors under development actually
by one of our professors here at MIT,
by Professor Jacopo Buongiorno and collaborators.
And he's partnering with industry, national labs,
and foundations to form an advanced nuclear and production
experts group as a platform for any type of company
with any kind of business model that
might be keen to explore small modular reactors
and nuclear batteries.
So nuclear energy has this great potential
as a tool to achieve deep decarbonization
across all sectors of the economy.
But-- but-- people often ask, what about.
What about safety?
What about waste?
These are really good questions.
And the industry and scientists, we
have been thinking about these questions.
And this is a good conversation to have.
These are the right kinds of questions to ask.
So looking at the data--
this is a plot of the death rates from energy production
per terawatt hour.
And you can see the death rates there on the x-axis.
And you can see the energy production source
on the y-axis.
So coal and oil are quite dangerous
and can contribute to unnecessary deaths
around the world.
On the other hand, nuclear, wind, hydropower, and solar
are all extraordinarily safe.
So nuclear is actually one of the safest forms of energy.
So a good choice from that perspective.
But what about the waste?
So this is an old image from a TV show that ran in the United
States, The Simpsons, and the title character worked
at a nuclear power plant.
And unfortunately, images like this
are what many people think nuclear waste looks
like-- some glowing, green ooze.
I'm here to say that the reality is much more boring.
And of course, we take nuclear waste and closing
the fuel cycle extraordinarily seriously.
So nuclear waste is in a solid form.
Nuclear waste is spent fuel.
It is a very tiny fuel pellet.
You can see the size of it shown here
with respect to a human hand.
It's about the size of a thimble.
It is, again, in solid form.
There isn't much waste, in fact, produced from fission,
and that's because of the enormously high-energy density
of nuclear fuels.
When you burn a chemical fuel--
when your body burns a Twinkie you eat or burn coal or gas,
there's a lot of waste produced because you
don't get a lot of energy per gram
from burning that fuel chemically.
But when you tap into the nuclear fuel
and you tap into breaking apart and restructuring the atom,
nuclear energy is released.
76 million kilojoules per gram when
we're talking about uranium.
And that's why a few of these fuel pellets
can actually be used to give you much more energy
output than chemical fuels.
So this is, in fact, how much spent fuel, high-level waste,
that you would produce in your lifetime
if we made all your energy with nuclear power.
You could put it in a soda can.
And this is really important.
Your entire lifetime-- high-level dangerous waste
in a soda can.
Now, of course, we don't store high-level waste in soda cans.
But in fact, we do create very sophisticated methods
of storing them in casks.
And these casks, these containers, are very strong.
Impervious to many, many external problems,
and can be monitored and carefully
tracked how the spent fuel is behaving inside
of those containers.
And when you think about how many of these
containers do we need, how much spent fuel have we used,
if we look at the United States, we've
produced roughly 83,000 metric tons of used fuel
in the history of--
in the history of civilian commercial nuclear power
in this country, over 60 years.
All that waste, all that spent fuel could fit on a football
field-- just one of them--
at a depth of less than 10 yards.
And if you've ever flown in the United States
and flown over cities and seen the surrounding areas,
there's a lot of football fields here.
So this is not a large volume.
This is not something that is unmanageable.
This is a very manageable situation,
both from a technical and a policy standpoint.
So how do we move towards a solution for waste, a solution
for storing our spent fuel?
So some countries--
Finland, Sweden-- have been able to communicate benefits
of nuclear and technical solutions
for managing safety and waste concerns.
Even in Japan, these conversations are happening.
So it is possible to gain public acceptance,
but it is a slow process because we
as members of the public rightfully have concerns
and we're asking these kinds of questions.
And so it's very important that we partner with communities,
that communities are having conversations with scientists,
with governments, exactly about how environmental monitoring
works and how we can very carefully and correctly store
spent fuel in a manageable way so
that we can use nuclear fission to help
us address climate change.
So right now, there are projects funded
by the Department of Energy and the Office of Environmental
Management Technology Development Office
that aim to establish new improved paradigms
for long-term environmental monitoring of, for example,
spent fuel storage sites.
And they use state-of-the-art technologies, in-situ sensors,
knowledge of geophysics, drone- and satellite-based remote
sensing, model simulations, and, yes, AI,
artificial intelligence and machine learning,
with a real goal to improve the effectiveness and robustness
of environmental monitoring and also to reduce the overall
cost.
So this is definitely the kind of space
where technology and policy can come
together so that communities can be part of that consent process
to appropriately site a waste storage facility.
So nuclear energy really can help
us decarbonize all sectors of the economy and the built
environment.
It's got great potential as a tool
to go deep in our decarbonization
across all sectors of the economy.
The deployment can be responsibly scaled up today.
So expanding nuclear fission would
have tremendous near-term benefit
for helping us tackle climate change.
And that's just in the areas of heating and electrification.
If we think more broadly, it can be a cost-effective source
of process heat for industry, agricultural, chemical
processes, for fertilizer production,
and, of course, hydrogen generation.
And so universities, industry, national labs, they're
all at the frontier of developing
advanced nuclear energy systems rapidly.
And that includes vision, which was
this talk was all about that.
And in my next talk, I'll record a little bit
of a story about fusion energy.
So thank you, and look forward to seeing you next.