JANELLE KNOX-HAYES: Hello.
My name is Janelle Knox-Hayes.
I'm a professor in the Department of Urban Studies
and Planning at MIT, and in this video
we will learn about the political economy
of climate action.
This video will focus on the international framing
of climate change in particular.
When I ask students, when did climate change
become a scientific problem?
Most think about this question for a moment
and respond that the issue really arose in the late '60s
and '70s as a byproduct of the environmental movement
in the United States, or that it became a political reality
in the '80s and '90s.
Some of them reflect on the Rio Convention in 1992
as the starting point, and in some respects,
these answers are absolutely correct.
Climate change became a matter of concern
in the late '80s and the 1990s, but it's not
because this is when the science began
to understand the phenomenon.
The science is actually much older.
Some point to Joseph Fourier, who
was investigating the greenhouse gas
effect between 1824 and 1827 as the original discoverer.
Some suggest it was John Tyndall, who
was doing experiments on identifying carbon
dioxide as the driver of the greenhouse gas
effect in the 1860s and 1870s.
Some point to Eunice Foote, who discovered
the phenomenon earlier than John Tyndall,
but because she was a woman and an American,
didn't get credit for her work.
So the science behind climate change
has been around for at least 150 years,
and over time it's become much more precise and much
more consolidated under bodies like the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change.
But it's been known for a long time.
The reason in which people shift climate change
as a matter of concern to the 1990s this
is because it is when it became a development agenda.
So this image you see not September 11, 1989,
because, of course, this is protesters standing
in front of the Berlin Wall on November 9, 1989
as East Germans and West Germans alike
were tearing down the wall.
It's the beginning of the collapse of the Soviet Union,
and it is this moment in history in this geopolitical reality
that allows leaders around the world to begin
to care about climate change.
The 1992 United Conference on Environment and Development,
which was held at Rio de Janeiro,
is what arguably started the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change.
But the reason was that a new development policy was needed.
Prior to this point in time and after the Second World War,
the world had been divided into three spheres of influence
with the United States and their allies
forming what was called the First World, the Soviet
Union and their allies forming what was called the Second
World, and everywhere else everywhere in between all
of the developing countries and former colonial states called
the Third World.
The Third World is where the Cold War was actually fought
and where the war was not so cold in places
like that like Afghanistan, South Korea, Vietnam.
And in that time, development policy
focused on a single goal--
anything but communism, because there
was a fear that if any one of these developing countries
fell to communism, Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia,
they would all topple like dominoes and the United States
would lose its foothold in combating the Soviet Union
and its socialist ideology.
In outlining this new geopolitical reality,
President George H Bush took to the Rio Conference
a set of objectives and goals which you can watch in the link
below.
He said he was determined to protect the environment
and the US taxpayer.
And here he laid the agenda of linking
environmental protection with economic preservation,
economic integration, and the spread of the dominance
that the United States and Europe had established
with the end of the Cold War.
This new world order would foster environmental protection
and economic growth, and he would
seek a climate convention that would increase energy
efficiency and cleaner air.
At the heart of it would be technology
cooperation, which would help distribute American technology
to clean up the world's environment.
It would also use United States science
to increase the understanding of the climate phenomenon.
And then President Bush integrated issues
like his Forest for the Future Initiative, which eventually
became reducing emissions from deforestation and degradation.
And then finally, he went to Rio with the conviction
that environmental protection and a growing economy
are inseparable, and ultimately, the world
would take a stake in a strong American economy.
This type of policy was possible in the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change because at this point
in time, the United States and Europe
saw no challenges, no real economic threats
to their supremacy.
And so they established the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change with several key principles
and goals.
The first was the aim of having developed parties establish
their greenhouse gas emissions, which included carbon dioxide
and other anthropogenic greenhouse gases not regulated
under the Montreal Protocol at 1990 levels by the year 2000.
Much of the actual framework itself borrowed
from the Montreal Protocol, which
was used to eliminate the ozone holes above the Arctic
and Antarctica because of the success of that protocol
on the international stage.
And so even the way in which the greenhouse gases
were established and estimated was based off
of what was written into the Montreal Protocol.
There were other key and critical objectives.
One was article two.
This was the objective that the world
would stabilize greenhouse gas concentrations
in the atmosphere at a level that
would prevent dangerous anthropogenic interference
with the climate system.
This was incredibly positive in that it set this initiative
on the world stage.
It made it a common principle, but somewhat
problematic in that there actually
wasn't a clear definition of what it meant to stabilize
greenhouse gas concentrations, what that would look like,
and what it would mean to prevent
dangerous anthropogenic interference.
What does danger mean varies for different people
in different places around the world.
What's tolerable for people living in the Great Lakes
region of the United States, for example,
is very different from what's tolerable for people
living on low lying nation states like the Maldives.
And then article three was at the heart
of the magnanimous policy that the United States and Europe
were able to set because they were victorious in the Cold
War, the idea of common but differentiated responsibility.
This is the idea that all of the developed countries
had already had the chance to industrialize.
They were responsible for the greatest share of greenhouse
gas emissions, and so they should ultimately
bear the burden of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
And so they established two tracks of countries.
The first were Annex I, or developed
countries, who would all adopt common and equitable binding
targets.
The targets would be set based on the ratio
of the size of the country's economy,
as well as the percentage of the global share of greenhouse gas
emissions for which it was responsible.
Non-Annex I countries, developing countries,
would not be required to take binding targets.
This was the heart of the agreement,
and it was shared between the European Union, which
had been newly formed under the Maastricht Treaty,
to provide economic stability and prosperity in Europe
and the United States.
And in 1992, even 1994, it was viable
because it shared the leadership of both the United
States and the European Union.