DIANA RECKIEN: Hi, and welcome to the video
about urban adaptation plan quality
I am Diana Reckien, Associate Professor for Climate Change
and Urban Inequalities at the University of Twente
in the Netherlands.
I was also coordinating lead author for the last IPCC
report, so the AR6 Cycle for Working Group 2 and chapter 17,
which is on decision making.
And I am currently coordinating lead author for ARC 3.3
for the element Equity, Development, and informality.
Today I want to talk about the concepts and conceptualizations
of plan quality and urban adaptation,
how plan quality is currently understood,
and how it could be measured.
So then, let's go.
The Paris Agreement requests governments
to undertake regular global stocktakes of the progress
of climatic responses.
Now, the first global stocktake is due in 2023
so this year, which means that the signatories of the Paris
Agreement have to measure their progress of adaptation.
With that, there has been an increasing focus
on assessing in particular the progress of adaptation
across multiple sectors, regions, and cities.
And assessing progress of adaptation
is a particular challenge because of diverging views
on even what counts as adaptation,
parallel developments of, for instance, changing
baselines confounding other development,
other confounding development like societal development,
and often a lack of data for all these aspects.
But cities and urban areas in particular
are recognized as important actors in climate responses
with the potential to influence neighboring as well
as upper levels of government.
In urban adaptation studies, most assessments
focus on tracking and analyzing outputs, such as approved
adaptation plans, as these are often more
easily comparable and trackable than let's say
impacts and outcomes.
Urban adaptation plans can provide important information
about the quality and relevance of adaptation processes, goals,
and actions, and the likelihood that these
are advancing adaptation by reducing risks and increasing
resilience in an equitable manner.
And it is assumed indeed, that higher quality plans deliver
better implementation outcomes.
It has, for example, been found that higher quality
plans deliver on implementation and have
fewer trade offs and more synergies
with other societal goals.
So how can we measure plan quality then
if they can deliver important insights in the adaptation
processes and the likelihood of advancing adaptation?
To do that, we developed an index
that combines six well-established plan quality
principles as they are agreed on, or mostly agreed on,
in the scientific literature.
And these principles are fact based
adaptation goals, measures, adaptation measures or actions
that are planned or already implemented,
then information on implementation tools,
processes, and priorities, also budgets and timing, monitoring
and evaluation, and participation in plan creation.
And then we developed a questionnaire
with certain questions per principle,
assessing a number of criteria per principle.
And we calculate three subindices,
that is here the one and the two and the three.
So we have different points for each of these subindices.
And each subindex represents adaptation depth,
adaptation breadth, and adaptation quality
as we, yeah, we assume it could be best calculated,
reflecting the current scholarly opinion
and our expert view of about 40 urban researchers in Europe.
So, we do this for each principal.
So we have certain questions, a number of questions,
and then closed questionnaire with a number of responses.
And we calculate, based on the number of responses
three different subindices.
So we do this here for each principal,
six principals in total.
An important, very important aspect of our index
is that we add a number of consistency measures
as we call them.
They are measuring for example, how well impacts are aligned
with goals, how well impacts are aligned with measures,
how well measures are aligned with monitoring and evaluation,
and how well impacts are aligned with participation.
Overall, we have five of these consistency measures
in what we call the ADAQA index, so the Adaptation Plan Quality
Index.
And overall, this is the rationale of the third SAP
index, so the ADAQA-3 plan quality index
what we show here.
Because only ADAQA-3 has these consistency measures.
So that is really particular to that third SAP
index that is based on our best expert judgment.
Exactly.
So then let's go on.
And when we use that index, what did we find?
We have assessed 327 European cities and their 167 adaptation
plans.
So about 51% of the cities of those 327 European cities
had adaptation plans.
We find that plan quality indeed, increased over, time
and by about 1.3% percentage points per year.
We also find that the average plan quality
score is 34, so about a third of the maximum.
The maximum was set to 100 or recalculated to represent 100.
We believe this is low, or we consider that
as being low compared to the long history of adaptation
planning that actually exists in European cities and all
the legislations in place.
Galway and Dublin in Ireland and Sofia in Bulgaria
have the adaptation plans with the best quality in our sample.
So what you see here on that graph
is the exact outcome of adaptation plan quality
according to the ADAQA-3 index, so
that one that represents our best expert
estimate in calculating adaptation plan quality.
Then with this orange line, the average per year and then again
like a linear average put over it,
and we see indeed, that adaptation plan quality
is increasing.
Then we split up all the cities and plans
that we have in age groups.
And the green dots are the most recent ones.
So we had equal classes, almost equal classes.
Those in blue are the medium old ones and those in yellow
are the oldest adaptation plans.
And we here highlight those that are
best, the cities that have the best adaptation
plan per age group, as well.
When we look across the principals,
we also see an increase over time.
However, monitoring and evaluation and participation
remain at a very low level of about 20%
of the total possible score on average.
And with that, adaptation plans can majorly
improve across all principles, but particularly with regard
to monitoring and evaluation and participation.
We also found that consistency is
a very important aspect in plan development
as mentioned before.
And in figure B here, top left, you
see the alignment between impacts on vulnerable sectors
or industries with adaptation measures.
And many cities fare quite good in that, so here the top left.
So you see what is actually in the plan in terms of impacts
on vulnerable sectors or industries,
and how does that come back in the adaptation measures.
So that's quite well aligned.
However, when looking at figure C at the top right,
so here, we see that the alignment between impacts
on vulnerable groups and people with adaptation measures
is much lower.
First of all, there are fewer measures for vulnerable groups,
but also then, this is at a lower degree actually seen
again in the adaptation measures so taken up
in the adaptation measure section,
or as in the adaptation measures reported.
So that's not as well aligned.
And even lower is the alignment between plan adaptation
measures for vulnerable groups and monitoring and evaluation
at the lower left and the alignment
between impacts on vulnerable groups and participation
at the lower right.
Vulnerable groups are, we can here see, rarely included M&E
and rarely included in participation.
So there is a little bit of planned adaptation measures
for vulnerable groups, but hardly
any monitoring and evaluation.
And there is a little bit on impacts on vulnerable groups,
but hardly any participation.
And with that, I would like to close our little session
on plan quality and urban adaptation planning.
I hope you enjoyed it and learned something new.
And we have documented this research in a paper
and also offer an online tool where
you can assess the quality of any adaptation plan yourself.
So try it out for example, for your own city.
The location of the online tool is
mentioned in the paper that is just coming out
in Nature Urban Sustainability.
And we also have a website for our initiative.
And that is also given in that paper.
OK.
Thank you for listening and bye, bye.