
PAUL KIRSHEN: Hi.
My name is Paul Kirshen.
I'm a professor at the University of Massachusetts,
Boston, in the United States.
Many coastal cities are considering
building large offshore barriers to decrease flooding
under present and future climates.
This talk is about the feasibility of such a barrier
to protect Boston Harbor in the United States.

And this slide shows why this might
be of interest to this region.
Over here on the right is Boston Harbor.
And you can see in blue is the area that we flooded.
We had a 100-year storm with five feet of sea level
rise, certainly possible in this area by the end of the century.
So one idea is just essentially build a barrier
from this town, Winthrop, across the harbor
to this town called Hull.
And that would block off storm surge coming in here
from the Northeast.
Another idea would just be block off the inner harbor from Logan
Airport here to the seaport.
Now harbor barriers have been used for decades
to protect coastal areas from flooding.
In the upper left here, we see the hurricane barrier
system for the Thames Estuary to protect London.
Right next to it, we see a barrier
to protect the fishing port of New Bedford in the United
States.
Notice here that here is the barrier,
this portion is in water, but some of the barrier
is also built on land.
We've got water here from flanking around this low lying
area here to behind the barrier.
And this one here is a barrier on the Rhine River
to protect Rotterdam from flooding.

This shows a little more detail what the system would look
like for the outer barrier.
So you can see, here's the area of Winthrop.
It would run through here, go through,
take advantage of a couple of these islands,
run down here to Hull.
There would be two large gates here.
These gates are closed all the time,
so you need shipping to go through.
And then you have a major storm, you close the gates.
And this barrier would be a major engineering structure.
This is a profile of one of the possible configurations.
And it might stand around 30 feet above present mean sea
level conditions in Boston Harbor.
This shows the configuration of the inner barrier
here from Logan Airport across here to the seaport.
And the whole area here is just dominated by these gates
to close the flow when you have a major storm.
And these are what these gates look like.
They're called floating sector gates.
Again, these are the floating sector gates
on the system in the Rhine River in the Netherlands.
If these gates were to be built for Boston Harbor,
they would be the largest gates of its kind built in the world.
On top of the gates, you may have these vertical lift gates.
And these would be open most of the time
to improve the circulation of water near the gates
to improve water quality.
These systems are not cheap.
They're very expensive.
The inner-harbor one might cost $6 to $9 billion.
The outer-harbor one, the one from Winthrop to Hull--
here called the mid-harbor-- might cost $8 to $12 billion.
And if you were to build a system even further offshore
to try to protect a larger land area,
that might cost as much as $85 billion.
Obviously, not cost effective.
That's why the study just focused
on this inner- and outer-harbor.
Again, outer-harbor is shown as mid-harbor in this table.
One of the first things we looked at
was having built the barrier or the gates
open, that impact the tidal range in Boston Harbor.
If you have minimum impacts in the tidal range,
that may have minimum environmental impacts
on Boston Harbor.
The tidal range in Boston Harbor is quite large.
It's around 10 feet or 3 meters.
So using hydrodynamic modeling, we
looked at what the tidal range would be in areas.
And the green shows the existing conditions,
and then the dotted line shows the system
with the barrier in place.
And you can see, they overlap perfectly.
So this system with the gates open
would not impact the tidal regime in Boston Harbor.

But it would create some zones of stagnation
compared to the present circulation in the harbor.
So for example, right behind the barrier,
right behind some of the islands, again with the gates
open, you'd have these stagnation zones.
Also you would significantly increase the velocities
right near where the gates are even when the gates are open.

We also did this very important analysis on how many times
a year you'll be having to close these gates.
Now, you can imagine that when you initially
build these gates, you wouldn't be closing them very often.
Perhaps only a couple of times a decade.
But as sea level went up, you'd be closing them more and more
to protect the shoreline from coastal flooding.
And eventually, you'd be opening and closing them 50 times
a year, given sea level rise.
So the question is, what time period
would be reached when you're closing them more 50 times
a year?
Now these gates are massive engineering structures.
They're only designed to be open a couple times a year.
So if we're opening them, closing them 50 times a year,
essentially they break down.
They become unfunctional.
So what's this graph tell us?
It tells us that right now, the fighting
occurs on the land when the storm comes
in at 10 feet or greater.

If you close the gate every time a storm
comes in at 10 feet or greater, it
says right here in this graph that by around 2070, '75,
you're opening and closing the gates 50 times a year.
So lets assume you built it in 2050.
Why do we assume you built it in 2050?
This is a major projects.
Even if you decide today to build it,
would take years to get it designed,
permitted, and then constructed.
So if we get it constructed in 2050 under high sea level rise
scenario, may only be functional 2075.
Under a low emission scenario, maybe functional at 2100.
But the best case, lets say a low sea level rise scenario,
the system is very functional 50 years.
But you would have spent $10 billion.
It does not seem very cost effective.
Another aspect we looked at was environmental considerations.
We looked at impacts on ecosystem services,
water quality, and habitat.
And we looked at--
and it was done by expert judgment.
And we compared it to what would be
the impacts in the harbor with sea level rise
and increasing temperatures because of climate change.
We found that if you're only opening and closing
the gates a couple of times a year,
be minimal environmental impacts compared
to those that are occurring under climate change.
However, if your opening and closing these gates a lot,
more than a couple of times a year,
then you would have significant environmental impacts.

We also looked at the so-called benefit/cost ratio.
Obviously, in a system like this,
you want to make sure the benefits exceed your cost.
Want the benefit/cost ratio to be greater than one.
So we looked at this under various low and high estimates
of cost.
We looked into various discount rates.
Now a discount rate is used to bring future costs back
to the present.
A high discount rate, so to 7%, it
doesn't value future cost and benefits very much.
A lower discount rate like 3% places more value
on future benefits and costs.
So in the 7% rates, which some industries use,
benefit/cost ratio is well less than one.
Not cost effective at all.
Under a lower discount rate, benefit/cost ratio is one,
[INAUDIBLE] was one, but a little bit greater than one,
but still not tremendously cost effective.

We also looked at how this would impact
other uses of the harbor.
Again, the system would primarily
used to protect the shoreline and the buildings
behind it from coastal flooding.
But how would it impact other uses of the harbor?
Well, obviously it would protect shipping in the harbor
if major storm was to come and those shipping activities
were behind the barriers, and the gates were closed.
However, when the gates were open,
there would be increased velocity through the gates.
Enough so that it could impact commercial and recreational
shipping.
And finally, the gates and the barrier system,
even when the gates are open, could
impact the behavior of fish and fish migration in the harbor.
So a mixed bag here in how it impacts other
uses of the harbor.
So conclusion of this study.
A harbor wide barrier system could
manage some coastal flooding with perhaps
minimal environmental impacts and moderate impacts
in harbor uses.
Its cost effectiveness is low, and its operational life
would be limited with limited potential
to adapt or adjust the barrier once it
is in place could be challenging to respond to the uncertainties
of climate change over time.
What this means is that if we decide now
to go ahead and build this barrier,
we have to decide what should be the design
elevation of the system.
And we have to look ahead to essentially the end
of the century.
But we don't know exactly what the future sea level
rise is going to be.
Projections for Boston Harbor vary
right now from three to seven or more feet of sea level rise.
If we overestimate the sea level rise by the end of the century,
we would have overspent on this barrier and wasted money.
If we underestimate the sea level rise,
well, we're going to have future damages.
And so this system, though, once you commit to build it,
you have to build it.
There's no flexibility in the system.
You cannot adapt the system to climate change as it occurs,
which is a good way of thinking about how to adjust a system
to climate change to deal with the uncertainty.
So if we're doing this analysis, we
recommended that alternatives to the barrier system,
at least in the near term, be investigated.
In other words, we probably want to look at other systems
right now to protect the area from coastal flooding.
But perhaps near the end of the century,
you might want to reinvestigate the idea of a barrier.
So my next talk is about what these alternatives might
be to mitigate and manage coastal flooding in Boston
Harbor over the next 50 or 60 years or so.
Thank you very much.
