
BARBARA NORMAN: Hi.
It's Barbara Norman here.
Welcome.
And I'm an emeritus professor in urban
and Regional Planning at the University
of Canberra in Australia.
This short talk is about the case study of Canberra
being the national capital in Australia and my hometown
as well.

Canberra is [INAUDIBLE] the national Capital,
being the national seat of government.
It's a medium sized city.
Its population is less than half a million.
And it's a very green city.
It's often described as a city in a landscape,
as you can see from this photo.
And with 60% of the area of the Australian Capital
Territory within which Canberra is placed being national parks
and reserves.
Climate change is definitely being experienced already
here in Canberra.
We've experienced extreme heat.
And you'll see here a map and the link
below prepared by our National Science organization, CSIRO,
like NASA in the United States.
And it's showing a heat map of the area
of Canberra and the exposure to extreme heat in the future.
Wildfire, we had a very major event here in 2003 directly
impacting the national capital, and a very large one
in 2019-20, which was covered globally it was so significant,
and just affected the fringe of Canberra,
if you like, but protected the main town.
Extreme events have certainly been
experienced with very significant storms and flash
floods.
So we have our fair share of challenges
now and in the future.
We have legislative targets.
You can see them there for yourselves, 40% by 2020
achieved already stepped through to 100% by 2045.
And a very committed government to action on climate change.
And we also have a climate change council.
And I was the inaugural chair, the first chair of the Council
established in 2011.
And our first target was to achieve
100% renewable electricity by 2020, which we did,
and we're very proud of that.
In fact, just before 2020.
You can see, then, we're now focusing much more
on addressing even greater achievements
on renewable energy, but also electrifying our transport
system, looking at Waste Management,
and I think the hard nut still to crack
is achieving much more sustainable urban development.

Important point there on the bottom of the slide
is to involve our First Nations people, our Indigenous people,
the Aboriginal Australians much more in our decision
making process around land use management and climate change
action.
So I always mention 100% renewable electricity by 2020,
and there's some detail there on some of the background
behind that.
It is a combination of wind energy, solar energy, hydro
energy, and we're now moving into steps
which I'll go on to in a minute around battery storage.

Climate change strategy.
I think this is the third iteration.
This one is the most recent, 2019-25.
I've just put up--
there's a lot of detail in that strategy.
And again, there's a link provided for you.
But the principles are sufficient for this slide.
It is ambitious.
We are always ambitious in this small seat of government
here, which is great fun and challenging at the same time.
Collaboration is very important between the university sectors,
research, the non-government organizations, and government
working with communities, and innovation,
a strong focus on innovation and taking a holistic approach
to how we address action on climate change.
An example of that is the ACT living infrastructure plan.
That's Canberra within the ACT and [INAUDIBLE]
a timer that just went off that shouldn't have.
And goals climate wise, to be climate wise,
to be nature in the city to incorporate everything we do,
working with nature.
Not against nature, but with nature.
So bringing those green fingers into the city.
We are very fortunate in that we have
a design in this city of-- polycentric city
is what we're called with major green corridors going
between the major urban nodes, if you like,
if you can picture that.
And with that, investing in a clean green city
being the basis for becoming a more prosperous city
and a healthier city for everyone.

Future steps in Canberra.
So we have had quite a lot of success
in achieving our early milestones,
but we have plenty of challenges ahead, like everybody.
We would like to deliver gas-free suburbs.
And that, of course, is a big challenge,
not just technically, but also culturally.
People like cooking with gas they
like their gas as a product.
And so it's not only, as I say, a technical problem, but one
of community involvement and cultural change, really.
And so we're looking at building a couple of examples
of gas-free suburbs in the very near future
to test how that can all work.
Big battery storage is a major commitment
by our Australian Capital Territory government, the ACT,
and is in progress in being delivered.
But consultations still right now with the community.
I mentioned transport.
Carbon neutral development.
So not only just buildings, but starting
to look at districts, neighborhoods and districts,
how we can take that more holistic perspective again.
And I think one of the most interesting most recent
initiatives by the government has been looking
at the whole equity issue.
And so new minimum energy efficiency standards
for all rental properties commencing from April this year
in a stepped approach to encourage and then mandate
that anyone who's renting out a property
will have to meet these standards to ensure
that tenants are not paying more than they need to
for their energy costs.
What we're really looking at, then,
is what we would describe as integrated green precincts.
So action on climate change, taking that more holistic view,
places for people, places for planet, and places for people,
looking at energy, looking at transport,
looking at the environment, looking at landscape,
looking at connections between them all.
And then out of that, creating a much more livable environment
for the future, much more resilient environment
for the future, a much greener environment for the future.
Or as your president in the US often
says, building back better.
But my prime minister here, Anthony Albanese,
talks about building back stronger, which I quite like.
Just conclusions.
The lessons we've learnt in the Canberra case studies are
reflected in my two recent books.
One came out in 2018, which includes the whole case
study of Canberra's sustainable pathways for our cities
and regions, and the second one is the most recent one
that was launched at our national parliament
in December, just 2020, just a month ago on urban planning
for climate change.
And the lessons from Canberra and other case studies
around the world, but particularly
today's example of Canberra is the benefit
of a very clear vision, the benefit
of having clear targets like 100% renewable electricity
by 2020, providing that framework for everyone
to work together a transparency and accounting of what's
happening, so we can see how we're making progress.
And understanding that basically we
have the toolkit it's about action now
and having the confidence to do that, and working together.
Thank you for listening today.
