SIQI ZHENG: Hello.
My name is Siqi Zheng.
I'm a professor here at MIT urban studies
in the planning department and also Center for Real Estate.
I teach sustainable real estate here at Center for Real Estate
Masters program.
This will also be today's topic.
So I'm going to share my screen and let us get started.
OK.
So today I'm going to talk about the economics and the finance
of sustainable real estate.

So first some basic economics.
As we all know, the building sector
accounts for more than 1/3 of the total energy consumption
and also the carbon emission.
So which means from the energy perspective
or from the climate change perspective,
the building sector as well as real estate were responsible.
And because of this, we are also the target
of all kinds of policies.
For all the city mayors, if they pledge for net 0 in 2040, 2050,
then they understand they need to target and impose
very stringent regulations on buildings
so that they can achieve that goal.
So that's why we are so important.
But when we talk about this sustainable real estate,
we always say we have a triple bottom line.
PPP, three bottom lines.
This means we not only care about the planet.
Means to reduce carbon emissions,
reduce air pollution, and to protect people.
For example, better indoor air quality and cleaner building
materials.
But also we need to consider the third P, which is profit.
We can also say this is just for good,
but we also need to make sure there is a business
case for such kind of sustainable real estate
so that we can incentivize the key stakeholders
in the private sector, for example, developers, investors
to build, to supply, to invest in sustainable real estate.
Otherwise if we only rely on public sector,
hard because the majority of the housing
stock, the building stock, was built and maintained
by the private sector.
So PPP.
Each one is equally important.
And then think about a very simple case.
Green buildings or energy efficient buildings.
So we say doing good is the first goal.
Think about the green building and [INAUDIBLE]
a non-green building or what they call brown building.
We understand if we spend a little bit more money,
additional investment up front, and in the lifecycle many, many
years, because building is the durable good,
then you can have long term cost and reduction and CO2 emission
savings.
Good.
That's very good for the planet and also for the society.
In the meantime, think about financially we
want also to make this work.
So that's a profit.
And then which means doing well.
Can we just achieve doing well also by doing good?
So that's the key thing.
Then we always use this pro forma or cash flow analysis
to understand.
Suppose we are thinking about income producing
property, office building.
If you want to build a green office building,
then which means maybe you have an incremental cost up front.
For example, some lighting and efficient lighting and better
HVAC system or better insulation.
So you have an incremental cost 0.5% to 15%.
From the literature we know that.
And then the lifecycle many, many years,
so you can reduce energy bills, which is good.
And then you'll see the energy bills become smaller.
That's a kind of benefit.
And then if the market also appreciate
these green buildings, the tenants,
they are willing to pay higher rent to rent your space.
So you can charge higher rent.
So that's another benefit.
So then you compare.
You compare this incremental cost
and the incremental benefit.
The incremental benefit just span over years.
So you need to discount them into the initial time, which
is the NPV.
And if the benefit exists a cost, then go for it
and do this.
And otherwise those private investors and developers, they
may be very hesitant to do so.
So we need to make sure we have the business case for that.
However, sometimes the market won't work.
The demand supply won't work by themselves.
No problem.
Don't worry.
So we see we still have external forces as two major game
changers.
So one is policy.
The market is not perfect.
Then carbon emission is a very clear negative externality.
So we need policy intervention to reduce the carbon emission.
At the other hand, we will be from the capital market,
the institutional investors like pension fund,
BlackRock, and all those investors.
They push for impact investment, ESG investment.
So they say, if you do this green building investment,
I will invest in you.
The capital will flow into the greener areas.
So that will be another force as a game changer
to push the sector to go green.
Think about the policy side, I give you
one example, which is Local Law 97 in New York City.
Many people you know this, very famous.
So basically, they are saying, OK,
for all the big buildings, the big guys in the market,
larger than 25,000 square feet, those are commercial buildings,
then you must achieve this 2024, 2030, 2040, 2050 carbon cap.
If you exceed your carbon cap, unfortunately, sorry, you
have to pay penalty to the city government.
The penalty is very significant, as you can see.
It's 268 per metric ton per year.
And then this is a distribution in the middle.
You can see that for now 2024, which is next year, about 20%
of the properties they have to pay the penalty
if they don't do anything, if they don't do a retrofit.
And 2030, more than half of the buildings
they have to pay the penalty.
So that's a big pressure on the building owners
to retrofit right now to reduce their carbon intensity to avoid
the future penalty.
So that's a game changer.
At first maybe they don't have any incentive.
Now they have very strong incentive to do so.
They also create such a local [INAUDIBLE] carbon
emission calculator.
You can Google this and get this.
For example, this is Madison Square Garden.
If you enter this property, the emissions
show if you don't do anything, 2024 to 2029, fine,
you are safe.
After 2030, sorry, you have to pay the penalty, which is big.
1.3 million penalty per year.
And if you continue without doing anything,
then after 2035, each year you'll pay 2.1 million penalty.
Big.
So then the owners see this.
They change their mind and they start
to invest to retrofit the building.
Just now I talked about the energy we call as green.
Energy efficiency.
And then another thing is blue health.
Especially after this pandemic, healthy building
become more and more popular.
So the healthy building on top of green, on top
of energy efficiency.
Think about this healthy part.
So which means some more incremental cost.
Better ventilation and better indoor comfort and sunlight.
All these things.
Then additional cost.
Then achieve additional benefit.
What kind of additional benefit?
Productivity gain.
People live and work in the healthy buildings.
They are healthier and happier, higher productivity, and fewer
sick days.
So that's a big thing for those tenants as companies.
So then we say whether they are willing to pay
higher rent because of that productivity gain.
And then you compare again.
Incremental cost some more, incremental benefit some more.
Benefit exceeds cost, go for it.
Otherwise, not sure.
So that's economics of the healthy buildings.
Finally, orange.
Climate resilient buildings.
Similar idea.
Now on top of energy, on top of health, climate.
Whether this building has a better climate resiliency,
which means additional further additional cost.
For example, it's permeable pavement [INAUDIBLE]
infiltrate the storm water to avoid very extreme flooding.
And also some top floor.
You need to move the equipment, the mechanical systems
from the basement to the top.
All those things are in your cost.
And elevate the floor, the ground floor.
All cost.
But then you have climate resiliency.
Further benefit.
Compare this incremental cost and the long time,
like 30 years, 50 years.
These counted incremental benefit
and say whether go for it or not.
So from energy, green, to health, blue, to climate,
orange.
So that's the entire system how to use the basic economics
principle to understand.
That's basically the benefit of cost analysis,
to understand this economic rationale of the business case
for a sustainable real estate.

And we need to know that currently
this market of sustainable real estate, sustainable
buildings, a lot of certificates.
That's very important.
That can solve the information asymmetry problem.
At first there was no certificate.
And the developers, they self advertised their buildings
to be so green, so healthy.
How can the consumers understand, appreciate, and pay
a premium they don't believe.
No trust.
And then this certificate [INAUDIBLE] information
[INAUDIBLE].
Then the government or the nonprofit organizations,
they come up with these certificates.
The Energy Star lead operating in Europe and the [INAUDIBLE]
and some healthy building certificate [INAUDIBLE]
and et cetera.
So those certificates provide such a information
so that the consumers, the buyers in the market,
they can quantify the benefit.
They won't feel like they are cheated.
Then they are willing to pay higher rent.
A price premium makes this business case work.
So that's the importance of this information.
[INAUDIBLE] of certificate.
OK.
So that's a very brief introduction
of the economics of sustainable real estate.
Now we move on for the finance side.
More exciting.
If it makes sense, if it make business sense how
to get money, how to get capital, that's how to finance.
Big picture.
So I always show this big picture to my students.
So in this big picture, you can see always we
talk from the end users.
That's all of us.
This mean small individuals.
You can see the small individuals here on the top.
So that's us.
Companies are households.
So if they want to live, they want
to buy, they want to live, work, and play in more energy
efficient buildings, greener buildings,
then those buildings can gain some market position
and the rent and the price premium.
And then they choose, oh, this is a green building.
You must buy this building, live in this building.
This is the city and in the city is many buildings.
They invest in one green building and different cities
they compete.
So that's the physical side.
From the individuals, they invest and buy
and live in greener buildings.
And on the other end also us, we are individual investors.
We invest in stock market and bond market and the way
we save our money and pension fund.
And then they invest on behalf of us
these institutional investors, insurance companies,
the pension fund, and asset management companies.
And they invest and we can always directly
invest in the stock market.
Then this equity and debt.
And the equity market is small, medium, and the big guys.
They have more money.
And like REITs, they are big listed companies.
And the debt market mortgage and the mortgage basis securities.
So those are cash flow, these capital
into these physical market.
So that you can say that basically
when we think about capital money,
how does capital flow into sustainable real estate?
Then we think about from the individual ourselves.
We put money into our accounts.
And then big institutional investors
invest in this equity and debt market, all these marketing
instruments and then invest in real estate.
And then ourselves as users will play another role
from the other end.
We choose to live, work in those green buildings.
We pay higher premium.
So the capital will flow to those places
because they can make more money.
So that's the basic idea of the capital flow
into the physical side and why we can have the green.
And I'm going to talk some investment vehicles
for the green sustainable real estate to finance, get money,
and for us to invest.
The first is private equity.
Private equity is like a small [? vehicle-- ?] [? not ?]
[? that big, ?] but a lot.
And now the ESG is playing a very important role
for the private equity investment.
So basically, they are saying it's not
just this good for the society, but we
can see this sustainable real estate as a really value
creation because the PEs, they need
to get money from these individual investors.
And those investors, they are changing preference.
They are willing to invest in those private equities that
has expertise and specialized in these ESG real estate
investment.
And also they can see that for the market, so
for the sustainable buildings, and the market
is the individual households and the companies,
they are willing to pay higher price premium and rent premium.
So more and more these private equity funds,
they start to invest in sustainable real estate.