
PATRICK KINNEY: Hello.
I'm Pat Kinney.
I'm the Beverly Brown Professor of Urban Health
at Boston University.
Really happy to be able to spend a few minutes talking
about climate change and health in cities.
I'm going to start with high-level key messages
that I want you to take away from this lecture.
First of all, I hope I'll demonstrate
that health is adversely affected by extreme climate
events and that those are superimposed
on gradual long-term climate change.
It's mostly the extremes that are
key for public health impacts, but not
exclusively the extremes.
There are diverse pathways that can
link climate events to health.
Some of them are quite direct, such as heat-related mortality.
Others are much more complex, involving ecological systems
such as vector-borne diseases.
Also public health as a field, I believe,
has a very important role to play,
both in climate adaptation as well as in mitigation planning,
because it can help us to prioritize
solutions that bring health benefits where
they are most needed.

Substantial environmental health and equity gains
are achievable as we transition to a low-carbon future,
but we need to do the analysis to understand
where those benefits can be achieved in the short term.
And while climate-related health damages and also the health
benefits of climate action are now pretty well-documented,
so far, their impact on climate policy
has been relatively modest.
And I think that's why it's really important for us
to become informed about these issues.

Just a quick review of some of the climate
events that are important for society, including
for human health.
We often think of temperature as being
the most direct and impactful part of climate change
from a health point of view, but it's not only temperature.
It's also big coastal storm events,
which can cause direct damage to health,
as well as longer-term mental health and other kinds
of impacts on people's physical and mental well-being.
Along with coastal storms, there's also inland
flooding in cities that can, obviously,
disrupt society and have pretty profound impacts on health,
both directly through flooding, but also through disruption
of infrastructure, inability to get
to medical appointments and medications and things
like that.
And also relatedly, migration.
Being displaced from one's home because of flooding
or due to other climate-related events, like wildfires,
can have pretty profound negative impacts on people's
physical and mental well-being.
I'm going to use this chart from a recent paper
by Andrew Haines and Kris Ebi in the New England
Journal of Medicine.
It's a good summary of climate and health connections.
And this chart is the main figure
that they use to talk about climate and health.
And it kind of reads from top to bottom.
This is the first part of the chart.
The second part will be on the next slide.
So across the top are some of these climate events
that we just talked about, like temperature, flooding,
extreme weather events.
Really important, that sort of gray box
in the center, that kind of gives a hint at some
of the complex intermediate systems
that link climate hazards to the individual exposures and health
impacts.
Importantly, things like socioeconomic status,
access to effective health care, changes
to ecosystems, warning systems, lots of other societal aspects
that can either limit or enhance the impacts of climate hazards
on health.
And then those filter down into a variety of pathways.
In this case, they've laid out seven different exposure
pathways, which we'll explore further on the next slide.
Now reading down that chart, so the exposure pathways
are listed across the top now.
And then we have some examples of health outcomes
across the middle part of this slide.
Reading from left to right, from a more direct point of view
to a more indirect and complex point of view,
on the left side, extreme weather events.
We saw the coastal storm a moment ago,
direct injuries, fatalities, but also longer-term mental health
impacts.
Heat-related illness has been the most well-studied aspect
of climate change on health, immediate death, also
other sort of secondary effects that
filter through some of these other impacts,
for example air quality, which is the next one, something
that I studied a lot in my previous research.
Air quality is a problem in many cities,
especially in developing world cities.
And climate change tends to make it worse,
especially smog air quality, which
has really adverse impacts on respiratory and cardiovascular
outcomes.
Water quality and water quantity are adversely
impacted in ways that are bad for health.
A variety of pathogens that are present in water
can be enhanced with flooding, and also
at higher temperatures.
And some of these are really important factors
in the large burden of morbidity and mortality
in developing countries, apparently.
Likewise, food supply and food safety and quality
of food and sort of nutritional quality
is also potentially negatively impacted in a variety of ways,
including through direct CO2 effects,
but also through changes in patterns
of rainfall and temperature.
Vector-borne diseases are hugely important, especially
in developing countries, but increasingly in other places,
as well.
And there's a whole variety of vector-borne diseases
that are sensitive to climate.
And then finally, on the right side,
note the more complex physical and mental health
effects that can result from forced migration and resulting
conflict.
These are potentially really important, but also
very complex and hard to study kinds of relationships.
So I've thought a lot about this question that's
listed here over the past 20 years
as I've been doing research in this field.
And one of the things that public health science can do
is quantify the magnitude of current and also
future climate-related health impacts,
which can help us to identify what are the things that we
need to adapt to, and also can help sort of account
for the adverse effects in a way that
can be then quantified and sort of weighed
against the costs of action.
Also, we can use climate--
I mean, public health science to identify and prioritize
which climate-related health risks require adaptation
most quickly.
And that's very context-specific.
And relatedly-- and I mentioned this, I think,
at the beginning-- assessing potential health co-benefits
of climate change mitigation actions
is another area in which public health benefits or impacts can
and should be assessed to really help us lead in a direction
to more effective, health promoting, and also more
equitable policies.

So what factors make people more vulnerable
to heat-related deaths?
This is just an example of one research project that
was done by my postdoc, Jaime Madrigano, who's
now a professor at Johns Hopkins School of Public Health.
She did this really clever study when
she was a postdoc working with me in New York City.
And this is a map of New York City
with census blocks indicated.
And she developed an index using mortality data,
observed mortality data over a 10-year period
in New York City.
And she looked at what are the factors that caused people
to die when it got really hot.
And she created an index that accumulated
five different factors, which are
listed in this index on the upper left side.
The factors that made temperature-related mortality
greater were larger percentage of homes on public assistance,
a greater percentage of non-Hispanic Black residents,
a greater percent of deaths occurring
at home, greater surface temperatures,
as measured by satellites.
And then one factor made the impact of heat on mortality
lesser.
And that is having a higher percentage of trees.
So that was a protective factor.
And the index that she created was,
as you see over on the right side, the odds ratio,
the OR is the odds ratio for increased death on a day when
temperatures are high.
You can see that the index was directly related
to increased risk of death.
I'm mentioning this example because it
led, in an interesting way, to policy implementation as part
of the Cool Neighborhoods New York City Project, which
was launched in 2017 under New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio.
And in the preamble to the document
announcing this program, in the so-called Letter
from the Mayor, he points out that research
in New York City's neighborhoods shows
that heat-related health risks are greatest
in certain communities.
And basically, what he's doing is quoting the results
from that paper by Jaime Madrigano.
I should note, of course, that co-authors on that paper
included people from the New York City Department of Health,
who shared the mortality data that Jaime analyzed.
So this is a good example of how research that's really
targeted to community impacts can
have a really quick and important impact on policy.
And just a quick note about health co-benefits of climate
change mitigation, which I think is also an important point
to make, just to remind you that mitigation of climate change
often involves reducing of emissions of greenhouse
pollutants, things like CO2, methane, ozone, black carbon.
The sources that emit those pollutants often
also emit other pollutants that are directly
harmful to public health.
Actually, black carbon and ozone are health-relevant pollutants.
But also you can look at PM2.5, carbon monoxide,
nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxide.
These are pollutants that come from many of the same sources
that are carbon sources.
And as a result, if we can limit emissions of greenhouse
pollutants, we have the opportunity
to also achieve direct health benefits through improved air
quality.
These benefits tend to occur close to where
the emissions are reduced, which really helps
to benefit local populations.
And they tend to occur quickly--
the benefits, that is--
offering strong political incentive for local actions
to achieve global climate objectives.
For example, Mayor Bloomberg back in 2007,
when he launched New York City's sustainability plan,
actually made this point as part of his motivation,
and also to try to gain public acceptance
of his sustainability plan, which of course is
good for the planet, but it also is good for New Yorkers.

Air quality is one way that low-carbon strategies can
be healthy in cities, but there's
other pathways, for example by providing more green space,
reducing environmental inequities as we
reduce air pollution problems, as we, for example,
introduce electric vehicles and reduce transportation
emissions, promoting physical activity through investing
in bicycling and pedestrian infrastructure, which
can have knock-on effects that are beneficial
for mental health.
Also, increasing social capital, building resilience
to extreme events, reducing noise pollution,
increasing access to healthy foods
that are produced locally, et cetera.
And then just to close, I wanted to mention some sources
for further study and also related content.
The recent IPCC Working Group II report
has a really extensive chapter in chapter seven
of the Working Group II report on Health, Well-Being,
and the Changing Structure of Communities.
Also the US National Climate Assessment, Human Health
chapter, the 2018 Urban Climate Change Research Network Second
Assessment Report has a health chapter.
And then there's two other short lectures
that our group has recorded for you.
One is on the impact of wildfires
on health in urban areas, and the other
is on climate change and health vulnerabilities.
So thank you for your attention and good luck
with your studies.
Bye bye.