
PROFESSOR: Hello, everyone.
I'll be talking about how to transition from fossil fuels
to carbon-free energy.
In the first of my four presentations,
I'd like to cover some of the many reasons
why getting off fossil fuels is a very good thing.
Climate change is caused by the addition
of so-called greenhouse gases to the atmosphere.
Among these gases, the primary one,
representing 76% of all the greenhouse gases,
is carbon dioxide.
It's emitted by the burning of coal, oil, and natural gas.
That's the primary cause of climate change
and it's what we need to focus on.
Climate change isn't just a future problem.
We're already seeing it in the form
of supercharged natural events.
Some people have called this the new normal,
but a new normal suggests we've reached some new steady state.
So I prefer to call it the new abnormal,
because as we continue to emit carbon dioxide,
we continue to make things worse.
I believe others have covered or will
cover these extreme events.
Drought, wildfires, flooding, stronger hurricanes,
the dying of coral reefs around the world.
And these events are occurring with just a one degree Celsius,
or 1.8 degree Fahrenheit temperature rise.
If we keep doing what we're doing,
we could see a three or four degree C temperature rise
by 2100.
These events have economic consequences.
This graphic shows that over the last 40 years,
the US is typically average six disaster events per year that
cost $1,000,000,000 or more.
But in recent years, we've seen the number of big events
double.
Oil spills at sea have caused major disasters
around the world.
You may have read about the recent oil tanker running
aground at the Island of Mauritius
off the East Coast of Africa.
Although it's not as large as some other oil spills,
this one has impacted two coral reef marine reserves.
Various studies over the years have
shown that air pollution from fossil fuels
causes a wide range of health issues,
including childhood asthma and premature mortality in adults.
A recent international study concluded
that the cost of the US average is about $600 billion per year
and causes almost a quarter million premature deaths
per year.
There's been a real awakening recently
to the issue of social equity.
Fossil fuel plants are typically located
in low-income neighborhoods and can
be a significant cause of health issues in these communities.

Also, low-income neighborhoods often
exist along the corridors of noisy urban highways
and are subjected to polluting automobile tailpipe emissions.
Moving neighborhoods or highways would be a big undertaking.
But imagine if we replace all those gasoline vehicles
with quiet, non-polluting electric vehicles.
Pollution from fossil fuels isn't limited to the outdoors.
A recent UCLA study found that gas stovetops
emit a surprising amount of indoor air pollution.
Now many people prefer gas stovetops
over electric resistance coils because they heat quickly
and the flame size can be easily adjusted.
But new inductive electric stovetops heat very quickly
and can be finely tuned, so many top chefs now
prefer them over gas.
Natural gas is primarily methane,
which is highly explosive.
The federal government estimates that on average, a gas
explosion occurs every 11 days in the United States.
In some cases, entire houses are destroyed
as was the case for three homes recently in Baltimore.
Five of the 10 largest companies in the world
are in the oil and gas business, so we
shouldn't be too surprised that despite all the damage caused
by burning fossil fuels, they still
receive large subsidies from governments around the world.
The US is the most generous and gives the industry
about $27 billion per year.
The G7 seven countries pledged to eliminate fossil fuel
subsidies, and in 2016, they set a deadline of 2025
for doing that.
As we'll see in the next presentation,
solar and wind are now the cheapest forms of electricity
in many parts of the country, and there's
no reason why we should continue to provide
government financial support to old polluting energy
technologies.
We've seen that there are many benefits from getting off
fossil fuels, not just addressing climate change.
So I will leave you with this.
What if it's a big hoax and we create
a better world for nothing?
