
DIANA RECKIEN: Hello and hi.
Welcome to the video about equity, justice,
and urban climate change.
I am Diana Reckien, Associate Professor for Climate Change
and Urban Inequality at the University
of Twente in the Netherlands.
I was also coordinating lead author for the IPCC AR6 working
group two contribution for the chapter 17,
which is on decision making, and I am coordinating lead author
for ARC3.3 for the element equity development
and informality.
So today I want to talk about the concepts,
or conceptualizations of equity and justice,
and how they are related to climate change.
Then let's go.

Earlier this year, the working group
two of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change,
so the working group on impacts, vulnerability, and adaptation
stressed in its summary for policymakers that, and I quote,
"an integrated and inclusive system-oriented solution based
on equity and social and climate justice,
reduce risks, and enable climate-resilient development."
End of quote.
With that statement, and for the first time
in the history of IPCC reports, equity and justice
are highlighted as central, central elements
to adaptation and to climate-resilient development
at large.
But how do we understand equity and justice
in particular in a climate context?
Well, we will see.

Equity, justice, and fairness are often used interchangeably.
They are all concepts of distributional norms
in society, mostly related to proportional and exceptional
treatment, so related to the right-hand side
of this table here.
And I am just using--
probably you can see that, this pointer here,
so to that right-hand side of the table.
They are to be distinguished from equality, this is here.
That means equal treatment of equal cases.
For example, arguing for equality,
we could say all people should have an equal right of security
of tenure, no matter of age, gender, culture, income level,
or other differences.
Arguing for equity, for example, we
could say that different but fair payment is needed for jobs
requiring different skills.
So that's different.
That is proportionate, or exceptional treatment.
Likewise we could argue that special treatment is needed
for entities that have to bear the burdens, or damages,
or certain developments such as climate change
without any moral responsibility for the damage
and low problem-solving capacity.

Furthermore, fairness and justice principles
are important in society because they
are thought to enhance the quality of social life.
And indeed a good society has been
defined as one in which norms of fairness
play a significant role in guiding human behavior
and government policies.
The fact that some fairness principles are frequently
invoked and rarely disputed indicates that they have some,
one could say, normative clout.
And this means that some constraints
on the actions of self-interest are generally
agreed to be favorable for all in the long run.
However, an important aspect in the discussion
is what exactly qualifies as equitable, fair, or just.
And there are many approaches.
For instance, allocations based on emissions, costs,
and economic performance, net benefits, process needs,
or others with principles such as egalitarian, sovereignty,
polluter pays, ability to pay, horizontal/vertical
compensation, like [INAUDIBLE] market justice or consensus.
So there are really a lot of different approaches
how you can make that a judgment of what is equitable, just,
or fair.
And often the support for different approaches
and principles that depend on cultural as well as personal
judgement.
Therefore, who decides what is equitable, fair, and just
is very important.

But there are not only different approaches and principles.
There are all different dimensions
of equity and justice.
And while used in different ways in different contexts
by different communities, generally it
includes at least three principles.
Distributive justice, which refers
to the allocation of impacts and risks,
but also burdens and benefits among individuals.
Nations, communities, social groups in the community,
and sometimes also between generations.
Other terms for distributive justice
is distributional justice, or also outcome justice.
They are also frequently used.
Then we have procedural justice and that
refers to who takes part and decides the decision making,
or who decides on climate responses.
And we have recognitional justice,
which entails how different cultures and perspectives are
recognized and considered in climate responses referring
to basic respect and robust and fair engagement.

A fourth dimension was recently added
and is coming up in the recent literature.
And that focuses on how climate responses can be used
to restore past injustices.
It is called restorative justice and has gained traction
as an issue pertinent to loss and damage and related
litigation cases.
Intergenerational justice is also a term that flows around
and that's discussed, and that is usually seen
as a subcategory of recognitional justice,
but also with some relation to distributive justice.

Now how is this all related to the climate context?
Well, with the IPCC sixth assessment report, determinants
of climate risks, so far known as the propeller diagram
consisting of hazard, exposure, and vulnerability,
they have been complimented by the determinant
of climate responses.
A response is any action taken in anticipation
of current and future climate change,
including adaptation and mitigation.
Hazards occur natural variation and anthropogenic climate
change.
So there's not really an equity and justice aspect
there, or at least not very direct.
But exposure is defined as the nature and the degree to which
a system is exposed to significant climatic variation
and vulnerability is the degree to which the system is
susceptible to or unable to cope with adverse effects of climate
change, including climate variability--
climate variability and extremes.
These two latter aspects are related mostly
to distributive justice because they're detailing out
how climate change impacts and risks
due to different exposures and vulnerability levels are
distributed in a society.
Spatially, but also horizontally within a community, so to say.
That this can relate to differences between countries,
regions, cities, communities as I said,
but also other social [? roles. ?]
Although exposure and vulnerability are mainly
related to distributive justice, it is influenced,
if not conditioned, one could say,
by procedural and recognitional injustice in the past.

Equity and justice dimensions are also
central to adaptation and mitigation
with a view on all justice I mentioned discussed.
The literature based on each of these dimensions per response
is just building up, but there are already
strong calls for the integration of equity and justice
consideration in both adaptation and mitigation actions,
as I highlighted in the beginning of this talk.
And as I said, the IPCC six assessment report strongly
calls for the consideration of equity and justice
in adaptation, but there is also a similar discussion
in the working group two contribution
of the IPCC so on mitigation.

With relation to adaptation, this is, for example,
to prevent modern adaptation.
That is the unintentional increase
of risk due to adaptation for certain groups or individuals
in society.

And as we argue in the third assessment report on climate
change and cities, so ACR3.3, considering all these justice
dimensions it impacts mitigation and adaptation is decisive
for successful transition to climate-resilient development,
which in the IPCC [INAUDIBLE] report refers to the process
of implementing greenhouse gas mitigation and adaptation
measures to support sustainable development for all.

So with that, we are at the end of this lecture.
I hope this was an interesting session for you, centering
on how equity and justice are related and understood
in the climate context.
Thank you for listening and bye-bye.
