
GINA ZIERVOGEL: What are the challenges
we need to engage with if we want to support and work
towards more equitable urban climate adaptation?
There are three issues I want to put forward.
The first is around data.
Currently, there is a lot of focus on data.
There's a growing focus on big data,
on smart cities, on what we can do
to make sure we understand all parts of the city.
But I would argue that if we are not careful much of this
is going to overlook many of the low income
and marginalized people in our city.
So when we start thinking about having
a data-informed adaptation response,
we need to think carefully about who
is collecting this data, who is deciding
what data is important, and how is that data
informing responses.
I just want to share a little bit
about a project I was involved in where we worked closely
as academics with people in a local NGO in Cape
Town, the Environmental Monitoring Group,
and with a local social movement, the Western Cape
Water Caucus, to think about what it would look
like to collect data around water droughts,
water service delivery challenges in the city.
And so we used a co-production approach where together we
thought about the process, we came up with questions,
and we used a tool, the SenseMaker tool,
to collect a whole lot of questions.
And essentially, the social movement activists
were the data collectors.
And so in their own neighborhoods,
they collected these water stories.
And these water stories were a combination
of qualitative short stories around the challenges
around water in the neighborhoods where they lived,
and then some quantitative data on how
they interpreted these stories.
Were they able to seek resolution on their challenges?
How did they get support?
What were some of the ways they managed to resolve
some of their issues?
And so we had over 300 stories and a bunch
of quantitative data that went with this.
And we used this to share back to the people who
provided the data in the different local neighborhoods.
We also developed a really nice briefing note
with these stories and information about the issues
emerging that were shared widely, both in Cape Town
and in other parts of the country.
And we worked with a filmmaker to produce
a film outlining this project and some of the issues
that emerged.
As part of the project, we also brought
in the city of Cape Town officials
to some of our workshops to see if we
could work collaboratively with them
and see how this data we'd collected
that the officials were very excited about,
they wanted this qualitative input,
they were excited about the stories.
But when they started looking at the city of Cape Town's system
and how data works in the system,
it was really hard to find a way to input
this data into existing decision making systems.
So one of the things I realized from this
is that we need to think very carefully
about how we can have more of this qualitative data, more
bottom up data, more everyday stories and make
sure that feeds back into decision making.
The reality is many of these people
in low income areas feel that they don't have a voice,
and when we engage with officials,
many of the officials understood the context,
but were battling to respond.
So through a series of dialogues that emerged out
of this process, some of these issues
were able to be explored further.
And that leads me to the second point
I want to put forward that I think we really need
to focus on more going forward.
And that's around engagement and co-production.
So this is a growing field and it's
great to see the number of projects and work
that's increasing around co-production.
But for me in cities, this is really
an important and tricky space.
We have officials who are trying to address multiple problems.
It's hard sometimes for them to slow down and listen
to communities.
But we know that if they don't, then often the solutions
and adaptation options that are identified
are not going to be sustainable.
We need to get buy-in.
And so finding ways to engage in co-production is important.
We are seeing different dialogues
emerging and the example of the SenseMaker I just mentioned
is one.
But there are also many projects where, from the outset,
collaboratively, citizens, civic society organizations,
government officials, private sector
are thinking about their questions
together at the beginning, then exploring together what
it might look like and implementing.
And unfortunately, this is not widespread enough.
It does take time.
It does take resources.
But we have to do more of this, particularly
if we're interested in equity and justice,
because then we get to hear people's
voices at the beginning.
Yes, the marginalized voices, but also
people in positions of authority who can change things
who then can understand the local context
and so can help to mobilize for changes that can really address
some of these structural issues that are often
blocking the way forward.
And the third point I want to put forward
is that we need to see the city as a system.
So I know from my work in Cape Town that often in the past,
it was engineers who were understanding the water system,
and that had worked well historically,
and often had managed to ensure that water
was going from the water source to households.
But as the Cape Town drought showed us,
we can't only think of the system
through a technomanagerial lens.
We have to understand all aspects of the system.
We have to understand the environmental aspects,
the ecology, the broader system.
We need to understand the people,
we need to understand culture, we
need to understand politics, and governance.
And so if we want to move to more equitable urban,
adaptation we need to find ways to bring
in different actors who understand
the system in this way, and that isn't historically
how it's been done.
So more and more, we're seeing people
in the arts coming into the space, in the humanities,
in the social sciences, and we need
to find ways to work together to understand
the city is a complex system where we understand
how these different parts work together
and what it means for one aspect of the system
to be addressed and not others.
So two examples are first that in Cape Town,
we saw a lot of boreholes being sunk by private households
during the drought.
That was very much looking after individual needs.
And so that was at the expense of the broader system,
the ecological system and the ability
for more people to have access to water.
Also what wealthy households need
to start realizing is if they only focus on their needs,
that, actually, is at the expense of other people.
And that comes back to undermine the whole system.
So if we can start seeing that we really
need to work as a whole, that we are all connected,
we can hopefully start to find more sustainable solutions that
address the needs of all people, nature, environment
in the system together.