
JANELLE KNOX HAYES: Hello, I'm Janelle Knox Hayes.
I'm an associate Professor in the Department of Urban Studies
and Planning at MIT.
In this video, we're going to discuss
pathway five of the pathways to urban transformation.
This is to advance governance, finance,
and knowledge networks.
This pathway encourages developing robust city
institutions, advancing city creditworthiness,
and participating in city research and action networks
to enable climate action.
In terms of finance, access to both municipal and outside
financial resources is necessary to fund climate change
solutions.
Because cities are the locus of large and rapid
socioeconomic development around the world,
economic factors will continue to shape urban responses
to climate change.
Cities are where socioeconomic change occurs in most nations.
With rapidly burgeoning populations,
the influence of cities will only grow in the 21st century.
And city based approaches to economic decision
making and finance are crucial to meet climate challenges.
C40 cities, a global network of city mayors working
on climate change, has a climate leadership group
working on accelerating local climate
action by helping cities gain access to finance and capital
markets.
A number of C40 cities do not have a credit rating or access
to international capital, and therefore cannot make
the climate investments that simultaneously can drive
economic growth and development, and deliver significant
co-benefits.
The C40 creditworthiness program,
with support and guidance from international experts,
is helping cities break through these barriers
and realize their full potential to build a low carbon
and climate resilient future.
In terms of governance, sound urban climate governance
requires longer planning horizons
and effective implementation mechanisms and coordination.
C40 cities has established the global covenant of mayors
to drive more aggressive city climate actions
and reaffirm existing targets.
Through the covenant, cities are showing national governments
the extent of action that cities are already
undertaking so that they might be incorporated
into national level strategies, or further supported
through more enabling policy environments
and resourcing approaches.
Encouraging increased capital flows into cities
to support local action, demonstrating the commitment
of city governments to contribute positively
to more ambitious, transparent, and credible national climate
targets by voluntarily agreeing to meet
standards similar to those followed
by national governments.
Establishing a consistent and transparent accountability
framework that can be used by national governments,
private investors, or the public to ensure
that cities can be held responsible
for their commitments.
Connecting with national and international capacity building
networks helps to advance the strength
and success of city level climate
planning and implementation.
For example, the international City County Management
Association, ICMA, city link's program
created the city link's climate adaptation partnership program
where local governments in developing countries
can apply to become the partner city of a resource city
that will aid in the development and implementation of a climate
adaptation project.
City links pairs international partner cities
with resource cities that face and have
begun to address similar adaptation challenges.
International partner city staff have the opportunity
to further hone their technical and management skills
and implement a project that will benefit their community.
They observe solutions and best practices
developed in the resource city.
To provide additional targeted technical support
to the city links partnerships, ICMA draws on expertise
from the Urban Climate Change Research Network.
The academic experts are selected UCCRN scholars
that are based regionally or locally.
They join the city representatives
on technical exchanges to provide tailored climate
science expertise and assistance,
combining a science based approach
with practical application to assist
the municipality in preparing for future climate impacts.
City links teams work closely together, over a 9 to 12
month period, to develop strategic recommendations that
are the basis of an implementation plan informed
by local science data, city staff, community
stakeholders, and leading global practices in urban adaptation.
