MATTIA F. LEONE: Hey, everyone.
Today, we'll talk about a framework
for sustainable and resilient cities.
Taking two key concepts emerging in the 1970s thanks
to the work of these two scientists.
The first, sustainability from the domain
of economics-- emphasizing the need of balancing
social, environmental, and economic dimensions in developments
and investments.
The second, resilience from the domain of the ecological sciences.
Focusing on the dynamic dimension that
characterize all ecosystems, constantly
adapting to changing conditions to thrive and evolve.
Socio-demographic and climate change,
push for the need for looking at transformative and adaptive
dimensions of sustainability with respect to evolving societal and
environmental dynamics.
Let's take the example of the city where I live, Napoli, in Italy.
As other regions in Mediterranean Europe,
the magnitude and frequency of extreme temperature and precipitation
events over land and sea
significantly increased in recent years
and are expected to further aggravate in the future.
Together with the impact of extreme events, the
slow-onset
variations in seasonal temperatures are
dramatically impacting on urban energy uses,
shifting the majority of consumptions
for building cooling in the hot season
Irregular precipitation patterns and prolonged droughts,
combined with increased evapotranspiration due to heat
extremes are also dramatically affecting
agriculture sector and irrigation needs
in urban green areas.
This is combines with the widespread socioeconomic divide
compared to other Italian and EU regions,
with an extremely low GDP per capita (about 17k
euro per year),
emigration phenomena involving especially highly
qualified and trained young individuals the pressing demand
to meet higher standards in basic needs,
such as the quality and availability of social housing,
public transport, and other urban services.
The working group two of the IPCC AR6 helps us
to frame in a unique concept the Climate Resilient Development,
our goal of combating climate adaptation and mitigation
with actions to improve nature's and people's
well-being-- so basically what we might refer
to as Sustainable Development Goals.
This is particularly relevant to our module,
since we believe that the value proposition
to urban decision makers, practitioners and communities of
climate action in cities is strongly
linked to our ability of demonstrating
the multiple social, environmental,
and economic co-benefits of evidence-based planning
and urban design solutions delivering integrated
climate benefits in terms of mitigation and adaptation.
The framework necessarily has to be wide enough
to take into account the multiple physical, functional,
and societal implications of any transformative action for cities.
A methodological framework based on an alliance between science
and communities to build local capacity towards practitioners
and decision makers, and promote, instead of "demonstrator
projects", a radical change in the "business
as usual" approach, thus bringing equity and environmental justice
hand-in-hand with measurable impacts
on climate and environmental goals.
A methodological framework tailored to city-specific cases, which
includes the critical knowledge components supporting the needed
paradigm shift with respect to current policies
and practices in planning and urban design.
In the UCCRN Second Assessment Report,
the framework is linked to a four-step process, in which
the planning and design intervention is grounded on two
core sets of information--
The first arising from the "climate analysis mapping", at city,
district, and subdistrict scales, which enables, through modeling
embedded into planner/designer-friendly tools
such as GIS and 3D modeling tools,
the understanding of urban microclimate conditions
and the simulation and assessment of key performance indicators
for e.g. indoor/outdoor thermal comfort, energy
consumption and production from renewable sources,
carbon emissions and storage capacity, rainwater runoff
and filtration, etc..
The second based on a thorough "site survey and public space
evaluation", which includes local authorities, stakeholders,
and community engagement to take into account city
transformation pathways, to identify
common goals and divergence elements,
fostering the collaborative mapping of priorities
and the co-creation of solutions.
These steps allow to orient the planning and
urban design towards future city visions -
You could actually name that the "green-blue city",
the "15-minutes city",
the "zero-carbon city", or the "circular city".
Although we probably look to a city which includes simultaneously
all the quality features of such "visions"
And in relation to the vision, to clearly
highlight the climate benefits and the co-benefits of specific
solutions,
giving evidence of the possibility
of matching and measuring, through sustainable and climate
resilient planning and urban design principles and processes,
the key shared climate and socio-environmental goals.