
MICHAEL STOVER: Hello.
My name is Michael Stover.
I am a professional civil and environmental engineer,
and I recently concluded 30 years of active duty
with the US Public Health Service,
including 19 years with the Indian Health Service in water
and wastewater engineering design and construction,
and more recently, the past 11 years with the Environmental
Protection Agency region one in Boston
as the tribal program manager.
Before we begin this discussion, I
would like to offer the following land acknowledgment.
The land on which I currently reside,
South of Boston, Massachusetts, is
the traditional land of the Wampanoag Massachusett,
and Pokanoket tribal nations.
I am here with you today to share my perspectives
and experience in working with tribal nations
throughout the country and how their communities have
dealt with the changing climate, drawing from my observations
and experience in working together
in partnership with the tribes to determine
current and future impacts and develop resilience
and adaptation strategies.
Generally speaking, the tribal nations
with which I've had the privilege to work
are not typically located in urban centers.
The tribes in New England, for instance,
live in rural communities typically
on, or in close proximity to natural resources that
have since time immemorial provided sustenance
for their communities.
These tribes are largely riverine or coastal
communities, and for generations have had access
to sustenance foods in the form of marine and freshwater
fish, shellfish, and other aquatic species,
as well as nutritional and medicinal plants
such as sweetgrass, and also wildlife
in the wetlands and forests that border the waterways.
It is generally understood that North American tribes have
lived on these lands for well over 10,000 years
and therefore tribal nations have
adapted to varied climatic conditions
throughout the years.
Information about the tribes' cultures and traditions
have been passed down through generations
by way of oral traditions, including tribal stories,
songs, symbols, and dances.
This is embodied in what is typically
called traditional ecological knowledge, or TEK.
When we think of tribal--
of climate impacts, our minds typically
revert to thinking about how these impacts are affecting
or will affect large population centers
such as cities, coastal towns, and major infrastructure.
For tribal nations, their concerns
regarding the effects of climate change
are typically less about impacts to infrastructure and utilities
and more on effects the threaten their culture, traditions,
and the sustenance food sources on which their members depend.
It is also important to understand
that while our society typically refers to lands and waters
and what they contain is natural resources,
tribes generally regard natural systems such as rivers
and forests, and all plants and animals contained therein,
as relatives, rather than resources
that are in a symbiotic relationship with themselves
and the rest of humanity.
And because of the tribe's reliance
on these natural resources that are particularly
vulnerable to the effects of a changing climate,
the livelihoods of tribal communities,
typically in a lower economic status
as compared to other communities,
are and will be disproportionately impacted
by these effects as compared to other populations.
Some of these impacts that are either currently happening
or are predicted to occur include the following.
Declining populations of certain anadromous fish species, most
notably Atlantic salmon and Herring,
that have for generations provided, or used to provide,
an essential protein source, particularly during the spring
runs during spawning season.
The declining population has been
exacerbated by hydropower electric dams,
often touted as a preferred alternative
to burning fossil fuels for energy,
since there are no emissions from hydropower.
But without adequate fish passage,
and by altering the aquatic habitat
in river morphology upstream and downstream of the dam,
including warming of the retained water in the head
ponds, dams have been disastrous to the health
of many aquatic species.
Warmer temperatures of the marine and riverine
environments have resulted in changes in migration patterns
of fish and wildlife.
Lobster, for instance, a traditional food
source for coastal tribal nations in the northeast
and formerly in abundance in Southern New England,
are now migrating to cooler waters further north.
Ocean acidification caused by increased carbon dioxide
in the atmosphere, and thereby increased absorption
by the ocean, threatens the habitat of clams and quahogs,
a traditional food of the Wampanoag
due to the resultant decrease in dissolved calcium
carbonate in the marine environment
that is critical for shell development.
Additionally, invasive species, becoming
acclimated to warmer oceans and natural environments,
also threaten tribal traditional cultural and food sources.
Examples include moose populations
in Maine impacted by huge increases
in tick populations that no longer are greatly
reduced when the winters are unseasonably warm.
And migrating emerald ash borer that
threatens the survival of the Brown ash tree, which
is the primary source for the traditional basket weaving,
such as this basket.
However, as mentioned earlier, tribal communities
have adapted to a changing climate over thousands of years
and continue to respond to the urgency of the climate
situation through culturally-influenced forward
thinking innovation that weaves together science
and traditional knowledge.
Some examples with which I've been involved
include the following.
First, the natural hardening of coastal
shorelines by the Mashpee Wampanoag tribe of Cape Cod.
The oyster is a traditional food of the Wampanoag,
but due to population growth and resultant nutrient pollution
in coastal bays and inlets, fish and shellfish populations
have plummeted in recent years.
Oyster reefs that used to armor shorelines
and buffered them from erosion no longer provided
that protection when the population declined,
resulting in aggressive erosion and loss of embankment,
particularly during storms that have
been increasing in intensity due to climate change.
The Mashpee said off to establish
an aquaculture project to re-establish oyster
in their traditional coastal areas, which
will have the benefit of not only rearmoring the shorelines,
but also reducing the nutrient pollution in the estuaries
while also providing the tribe with economic development
through the harvesting and sale of oysters.
Another example is the watershed and habitat restoration
of Wolastoq, which is the Maliseet name for the Saint
John River by the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians in Maine
and the Maliseet First Nations in Canada.
The Maliseet tribe and First Nations
initiated a tribal-led collaboration
comprised of tribes, first nations, and US
and Canadian federal partners in 2016
to restore the impaired Wolastoq watershed
and bring back native aquatic species that
have been decimated by pollution,
thermal warming, and hydropower development
over the past two centuries.
Such improvements include bringing the water
back to its natural state to restoring the tree canopy
along the river that was cleared years ago for agricultural use.
Also, creating spawning pools once
wiped out by the logging industry.
And perhaps most importantly, strongly
advocating for fish passage and dam removal
so that migrating fish populations can once again
increase in population and return
to their traditional spawning grounds.
A similar effort has been under development by the Penobscot
Nation and the Passamaquoddy tribe
in their respective rivers and watersheds in Maine.
Another example is early detection of invasive species
through eDNA technology.
When I served as the tribal program manager
at EPA region one, it was the tribes
in New England who came to me, to EPA,
and suggested a research partnership with the EPA
to develop a technology to detect particulate DNA
matter in their water bodies.
Now this is DNA material in the form of cellular tissue
that is shed from plants and animals that
can serve as an indicator of presence
or absence of invasives, and can also
serve to measure the success of tribal aquatic restoration
programs.
Such a technology paired with a mobile device
such as a smartphone will enable tribes
to conduct their own watershed assessments
without reliance on outside laboratories or expertise.
This is a wonderful example of tribal-initiated innovation
that is just getting started and that
will serve as a model for other communities
who are in the process of protecting
their resources against the effects of climate change.
And I've referenced traditional ecological knowledge
a few times in this discussion and would
like to underscore its importance in how
we, as a society, collectively respond
to the effects of climate change.
The tribal nations have thousands
of years of inherited traditional knowledge
of their natural environment that,
to the extent that the TEK is not sensitive and is shareable,
has the potential to inform federal decision making
and shape public policy, including climate adaptation
actions and activities.
In EPA's climate adaptation action plan
issued in October 2021, the agency commits to, quote,
"work with tribes and Indigenous peoples to identify and support
the use of climate change-relevant traditional
ecological knowledge in decision making."
And more recently, in December 2022,
the Biden administration issued guidance
for all federal departments and agencies on Indigenous
knowledge, recognizing the value of TEK
and providing guidance on the consideration, inclusion,
and application of traditional knowledge in federal research
policies and decision making.
In conclusion, the changing climate
is a call to action for all of us, particularly those of us
involved in crafting policy and developing adaptation plans
and actions.
Tribal nations recognize the challenges ahead
that will likely have an impact on their traditional lifeways.
However, tribal nations have retained an ancestral body
of traditional knowledge for generations
and have fostered a symbiotic relationship
with the natural environment that will greatly
enable them to be resilient throughout the current climate
crisis and adapt to the changes ahead.
Additionally, the sharing of traditional ecological
knowledge as appropriate with policy and decision makers
will assuredly advance our collective response
to climate change.
Links to the documents I mentioned,
as well as other pertinent documents
will be included as part of this lecture.
It has been a real pleasure to spend this time with you.
Thank you very much.
