PROFESSOR 1: There are six pathways
to urban transformation.
These pathways guide the way for hundreds of cities,
large and small, low, middle, and high income,
throughout the world to play a significant role in climate
change action.
PROFESSOR 2: However it's important to recognize
that cities are on very different development
trajectories and that these trajectories may
affect the rate of climate change transformation.
PROFESSOR 1: The first pathway is
to integrate mitigation and adaptation.
Actions that reduce greenhouse gas emissions,
while increasing resilience, are a win-win.
An example is the Helsinki smart city,
which uses district heating cooling in a resilient
coastal urban area.
PROFESSOR 2: The second pathway is
coordinating disaster risk reduction and climate change
adaptation.
Disaster risk reduction, DRR, and climate change adaptation,
CCA, are the cornerstones of resilient cities.
There are meaningful lessons learned
from Hurricane Sandy in New York City at the 10 year mark.
PROFESSOR 1: The third pathway is to co generate
risk information.
Risk assessments and climate action plans
cogenerated with a full range of stakeholders and scientists
are most effective.
Examples are the urban design climate workshops
in Durban, South Africa, which provides stakeholder engagement
with city planners and uCern leaders.
PROFESSOR 2: The fourth pathway is
to focus on disadvantaged populations.
The needs of disadvantaged and vulnerable citizens
should be addressed in climate change planning and action.
An example is understanding the spatial analysis
of vulnerability in cities such as Medellin,
and planning and prioritizing for those that are currently
disadvantaged.
PROFESSOR 1: The fifth pathway is
to advance governance, finance, and knowledge networks.
Developing robust city institutions,
advancing city creditworthiness, and participating
in city research and action networks enable climate action.
Examples are the urban knowledge networks,
such as uCern, G-COM, ICLIE, and C40, which enhance
international climate action.
PROFESSOR 2: Pathway 6 is equity in environmental justice.
It is important to always keep these in mind.
An example is embedding environmental justice
into our research and learning from frontline local and
underserved communities.