Pathway six, which will be included in UCCRN's forthcoming arc.
3.3 represents equity and environmental justice.
Cities are characterized by the large diversity
of socioeconomic groups living in close proximity.
Diversity is often accompanied by stratification based on class,
caste, gender, profession, race,
ethnicity, age and ability.
This gives rise to social categories that in turn affect the ability of individuals
and groups to endure climate stresses and minimize climate risks.
Such differences often lead to discrimination based on group membership.
Poorer people and ethnic and racial minorities tend to live
in more hazard prone, vulnerable and crowded parts of cities.
These circumstances increase their susceptibility
to the impacts of climate change and reduce their capacity
to adapt to and withstand extreme events.
Countries and communities that have historically contributed the least
to global climate change might be impacted the most.
The distribution of impacts between countries as well as within cities
of documented natural disasters highlights the disproportionate impact
of weather related extreme events on the most vulnerable in society.
This is illustrated by Bangkok's flood crisis in 2011.
Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines in 2013.
The Chicago Heat wave in 1992
and Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans in 2005.
Highly vulnerable people often share a set of similar
and often interacting characteristics, including minority status,
race, ethnicity, gender, education, income, age and health.
These characteristics determine where people live, are sensitive.
They are their assets and how adaptive they are
after one or several hazard occurrences.
High exposure and sensitivity often coincide with low adaptive capacity,
leading to higher risk and potentially serious impacts.
These characteristics are exacerbated by existing poverty and inequality.
They are further eroded over time
through repeated coping and risk accumulation processes,
which is the cumulative impact of relatively minor weather events
that are potentially significant to vulnerable groups
and which have indirect implications for chronic poverty.
However, it is not just the most vulnerable who are impacted.
Regularly occurring events such as droughts and floods can also
persistently act to undermine the resource base of better off groups in society.
Ultimately leading to an increasing spread of those affected by conditions
of poverty, equity and environmental justice is a critical component
of many climate action plans for cities across the globe, and many cities
have created equity offices to codify equity and environmental justice
in city planning for climate change adaptation and mitigation.