
JANELLE KNOX HAYES: Hello I'm Janelle Knox Hayes.
I'm an associate Professor in the Department of Urban Studies
and Planning.
And in this video, we'll be talking about pathway 2, which
is the pathway to urban transformation
through coordinated disaster risk reduction and climate
change adaptation.
Cities are complex, social, ecological systems,
uniquely endowed with attributes and functions
that enable them to be the first and leading responders
to climate change challenges in both mitigation and adaptation.
Disaster risk reduction and climate change adaptation
are the cornerstones of resilient cities.
Integrating these activities into urban development policies
requires a new, systems oriented,
multi time scale approach to risk assessments and planning.
This requires accounting for emerging conditions
within specific vulnerable communities and sectors,
as well as across the entire metropolitan area.
The use of an urban systems approach
is valuable for assessing climate risk and impacts, as
well as adaptation and mitigation
opportunities and challenges.
The systems approach provides a framework
for understanding the role and significance of stresses
on the operation of urban sectors, metrics of resilience,
and early warning signals of potential system crises,
and pending system tipping points.
Often city governments are the first level of connection
to address resilience and DRR in urban areas.
However, they often lack technical, knowledge base
and financial capacities.
The newly implemented 10 essentials
of making cities resilient campaign of the United Nations
office for disaster risk reduction, UNISDR,
have provided city governments with practical tools
and indicators to build their resilience.
Currently nearly 3,000 cities worldwide have
joined the making cities resilient campaign
and will be able to use these tools to advance
their activities toward DRR and resilience building.
An example of the coordination of disaster risk reduction
and climate change adaptation is the development
of the cities alliance joint work program, JWP,
on resilient cities.
The joint work program brings together members and partners
to support city resilience, with an emphasis
on the challenges of slums, informality and the working
urban poor.
The partnership aims to facilitate
the flow of knowledge and resources
to enhance city resilience.
Supporting the emerging post 2015 framework, climate change
and habitat three processes, and to promote local resilience
strategies through inclusive, long term urban planning
processes.
The JWP is unusual in that it combines support
for global knowledge, financing tools and dialogue,
and connects them with on the ground technical assistance
and implementation.
While many other resilience organizations
focus on one or more of these aspects,
the city's alliance JWP bring them all together
to support growth trajectories, increasingly
characterized by equity, inclusion,
and environmental sustainability.