PROFESSOR: So we now have two very low-cost sources of energy
to replace fossil fuels, solar and wind.
But they are both electricity producers.
To fully harness them, we need to convert
as many of our energy needs as we can to electricity.
But we also want to minimize the additional electricity
we need to produce.
So that means maximizing efficiency.
Let's start with our biggest electricity user, buildings.
This is the building I worked in at the National Renewable
Energy Laboratory.
It's the world's largest net-zero energy office
building.
Net-zero means the amount of renewable energy generated
on site is equal to the amount of energy
the building uses annually.
To make it building net zero, you
start by making it very efficient.
In this case, the building uses half as much energy
as the latest energy efficient model building code.
This was accomplished through many measures
such as daylighting and nighttime cooling
in the summer.
Then to make this building net zeor,
we installed three on-site solar PV installations,
on the parking garage, the visitor parking lot canopy,
and the three wings of the building itself,
totaling 2.5 megawatts.
Net-zero energy buildings are becoming
common around the world, and NREL is now
at the forefront of designing net-zero communities.
Of course, we also have to improve efficiency
in existing building stock.
NREL has identified the most effective energy efficiency
measures for different states.
This example here is for Colorado.
Now electrifying the building sector primarily
means doing away with natural gas for space and water
heating.
The city of Berkeley was the first city
to ban gas in new buildings and many other cities
are following suit.
The idea is to heat and cool buildings and heat water
with efficient heat pumps.
Heat pumps her just air conditioners,
like the one in your car, that can run backwards and heat
as well as cool.
Heat pumps have become so efficient
that some types can produce two units of heating
for every unit of electricity they
consume when outdoor temperatures
are as low as minus five degrees Fahrenheit.
Another sector we want to electrify is transportation.
Electric vehicles like my 2017 Chevy Bolt, pictured here,
are a huge advance over gasoline vehicles
because they're so simple, they're
extremely reliable, and practically maintenance-free.
They're also very quiet, provide instant acceleration,
and handle well because of their low center of gravity.
The cost of EVs is dropping rapidly
because the battery cost is coming down,
as shown in the left graph here.
EV owners mostly charge their cars in their garage
or at work, but to allow long trips,
a nationwide charging network is growing rapidly.
Tesla already has an outstanding network
and this map shows that Electrify America has developed
two coast-to-coast routes.
This graphic shows EV adoption by country.
Norway is showing the way and is on track
to have 100% of new cars be electric in just the next five
years.
We should follow their lead.
I'm sure you're familiar with the disinformation campaign
to deny climate science.
Well, now that wind and solar and EVs are competitive,
we're seeing all sorts of different disinformation
about them, especially electric vehicles.
It's important for journalists to get out the truth
and so help counter these campaigns.
Now you might ask, how soon can we realistically make
the transition?
Well, better technology drives rapid adoption,
and EVs are much better than gasoline vehicles.
This shows two photographs of the Easter Sunday Parade
on Fifth Avenue in New York City.
In 1900, there were only horse drawn carriages.
Only 13 years later, the parade is virtually all cars.
Good things can happen fast.