Okay, perfect. Well, hello, everyone.
I'm Alex from Grinding Stone Collective, and I'm here with my colleague Brooke.
And today we're going to talk about food justice,
indigenous food sovereignty and land rights.
So this is just a brief
overview of some of the concepts we're going to be talking about.
We're going to share an introduction to the history and concept of Indigenous
food sovereignty and its importance to Indigenous communities
today.
So Indigenous food
sovereignty faces significant challenges due to the historic and ongoing
colonization and systemic oppression of indigenous peoples.
The first question we must ask is what is Indigenous food sovereignty?
We at the Grinding Stone Collective define Indigenous food sovereignty
as a right to govern our own food systems, from extraction to distribution,
using both ancestral and contemporary knowledge.
And just adding on to the previous slide
when we were essentially starting grinding stone Collective.
A lot of the the terminology around
food sovereignty focused really on food justice, which is about having access
to food, right, and to producing really high systems of food security.
But when it came to food sovereignty, there wasn't really
we felt a strong enough definition to really talk about the nuances
of colonialism mixed in with food security and land
access and land theft.
So we added to the definition
to make it a little bit stronger, to kind of fit like
where indigenous people are currently going in our trends
to kind of restore these these traditional foodways and knowledge.
So that's just, just a little background about how we are thinking
about the concept of food sovereignty, that it's more than just food security.
It's it's literally an act of reconciliation.
We made creation and justice and security all tied into one.
So just going to the
other side, historical background.
So you're both right.
You can have forced assimilation and you can have segregation,
but settler colonialism has some main components.
So one of the first components is that you are replacing
indigenous sovereignty with settler sovereignty.
You're replacing the government system,
even giving permission for them to still act as they are is still a form
of settler colonialism, because it's still you're giving permission to indigenous
people who didn't need that permission before.
So it's still settler colonialism.
It just may not be as like, let's say, you know, aggressive
as what we put in our minds of what settler colonialism is.
So one of the key factors is going back is the replacement
of indigenous populations, the establishment
of settler sovereignty over those indigenous communities.
And then, of course, the seizure of land
and then the usage of resources in extraction of those lands.
So you need to have privatization.
And in order to create of settler colonialism, especially within
the Americas, you had to create what's called the Indian problem.
And so creating these Indian problems that indigenous people
pose a threat to sovereign, the sovereignty of settlers.
Then you have to kind of create laws.
You have to create a lot of systems of ideology to then uproot
all that sovereignty.
So you can basically do what you want as a settler.
That's really what it's about.
So some of the things that we're going to be discussing today is Francis
Walker and the reservation system, the Indian Removal Act,
residential schools, relocation, stolen land,
land, forging access, our ration system and bison genocide,
and how all of these things are essentially the laws and policies
and procedures and kind of like the action plan of settler colonialism
on indigenous Americans and how that affected the food sovereignty
and where we're at right now in terms of the food sovereignty movement.
So thank you for that.
As cool, get everybody's perspective on settler colonialism.
So, Francis Walker, a lot of people don't know this,
but he was actually your third president at M.I.T.
and he actually wrote the book The Indian Question,
which helped promote answers to the Indian problem.
And one of these questions was essentially the reservation system.
The answer actually was the reservation system was to basically
subsequently move indigenous people off indigenous lands
in order to privatize them and to steal the land
and then to reduce essentially their control over land access
and a lot of this resulted in Indigenous people
being moved from nontraditional areas,
being placed into smaller and smaller allotments of land
and losing access to traditional foraging and hunting grounds.
And, you know, a lot of this was basically like foot traffic.
So it also lent to a lot of people essentially passing away
and dying through these removing of,
you know, these these are forced removals.
So this right here is actually, I think, from Walker's book, The Indian Question.
And this is a map in 1874
that shows the original reservations of Orange.
And then if we look at the I believe
the light pink is the foraging grounds
and hunting zones and peach like is like a peach pink color.
So you can kind of see like how where they're being placed
that complete like hundreds of thousands of miles away from traditional hunting
and foraging grounds and rights and access to that, including just familiarity.
Right.
Because even though there are some
nomadic tribes that have a long range, some didn't have a long range.
So moving the tribes out of those territories,
they had to acclimate to completely new food systems.
And then on top of that, we're learning a little a little later on,
as we go on to the other slides, this is the implementation of policies
to maintain indigenous people in those reservation systems.
So next slide,
I'll show you.
Ready their lips.
All right.
Stolen land of forging.
So Manifest Destiny provide us settlers with the agency
to take over swaths of native land through force.
We've talked about it a little bit on the last slide.
And so the impact
of those decisions and those policies
that happened around the 1600s about to the late
to the basically early 1800s is that we see
not only a removal of indigenous people, but we see
introduction of like basically
like cows, pigs, introduction of new plants and species
that are not from the area and also clearing away of lands.
So I know like we've talked about this briefly, but like for example,
the term stakeholder stakeholders actually an extremely anti-indigenous term,
it's really taking a stake into a ground to claim Indigenous territory.
That's where the term stakeholder comes from.
And so you're getting
large amounts of communities that have traditional ecological knowledge
being pushed off the lands and being introduced with a settler.
Citizens who don't know the land, who don't know the animals of the land,
or don't know the plants that are bringing in domesticated
species from Europe or from Asia Africa.
And we start to see basically the old growth forests go away.
Biodiversity gets down, I think in the wetlands.
If you look at the current
the current biodiversity in wetlands,
it was reduced by 80% for the cattle industry.
So a huge amount of the cattle industry starts destroying, saying
vast amounts of land, vast amounts of areas.
And as we see in this example
that actually Ali found this this map, which I think was a genius,
it shows traditional land and how it was kept.
And then over time, what happens as indigenous people are forcibly removed
to the land has a direct correlation, an impact on the environment.
And a lot of the stuff and climate change issues that we're seeing today.
So, of course, this also undermines
not only the environmental health but the continuity of knowledge, right?
Because we have to push people off the land.
And so those traditional knowledge keepers,
you know, are are being pushed along as well.
And so their knowledge
may not be fitting to the other area that they're coming into.
And then we also have the erosion of of traditional foods,
like I explained before, the dispossession of traditional seeds
and stuff like that, because a lot of especially
if they're settlement indigenous communities,
a lot of the times we had our seeds with us and then as
we were being forced to move, we may not have had access to those seeds.
So using traditional ecological knowledge through cultural
ingenuity was getting lost and kind of displaced all over the place
in a really destructive manner.
Now, just to briefly add on to this, like this
example of the difference between the indigenous lands, you know, back then
and seeing how the old growth forests like where they were situate
in the United States, 90% of that original old growth forest is gone.
Like, it's just completely gone.
So what we have left is only 10% of the original old growth that we're here.
And we need those old trees because they're
they're the mother trees of of the woods.
They're the oldest root systems that communicate between each other.
And they protect the forest.
So without them, we lose that ancestral plant connection
to the land as well.
So on this next one,
we are talking about Indian removal.
And I know that you guys technically talked about the Indian Removal Act,
so we kind of
wanted to talk about the Trail of Tears and sort of focus on that a little bit.
So the map that you see right here, I found a line and it depicts the
the forced relocation of Native American tribes
from their ancestral homelands to the southeastern United States
to the Indian Tauri Indian territory
in present day Oklahoma in the 1830.
And this was devastating because as we talked about with the Frances Walker book,
they were moved from their original territories
and they lost access
to those hunting grounds, food grounds, foraging grounds, etc..
And the land there just wasn't it wasn't great land, It wasn't fertile land.
So even the seeds that they brought unfortunately couldn't really
they couldn't really thrive in those environments.
The the journey itself was very brutal.
It resulted in the death of thousands of indigenous people.
For example, over 15,000 Cherokees set out West on the journey,
and of that over 4000 died, the most of them having succumbed
to hunger, exhaustion, cold disease,
both in the removal camps in the East, the journal, the journey itself
and during their first year in their new territories,
because as I mentioned, they just they couldn't grow anything there.
So you have
a lot of trauma around food and hunger
that starts to occur because of this
is sort of hard to talk about
because it kind of makes us emotional
because there's so much suffering unnecessarily, especially since there is
the United States is such a big continent like this wasn't necessarily necessary.
I'm not speaking about, well,
the policy
was a result of the Indian Removal Act of the 1830,
which aimed to acquire land for white settlers
and push Native Americans out of their lands.
The Trail of Tears in the dark chapter in American history,
and a tragic reminder of the devastating impact of colonization
and forced displacement on indigenous communities.
So under the reservation system,
since the seeds were not thriving,
the United States decided that they were going to provide food
to the indigenous communities in the reservations.
It was put in place by the government in the 1800s as a way to provide supplies.
Under the system, the government distributed food rations such as flour,
sugar and lard to Indigenous communities on a regular basis.
While the ration system was intended to help Indigenous communities,
the mostly had negative effects.
First, the food that was provided was often low quality and lacked
nutritional value.
This led to many health problems, such as malnutrition and the spread of
diseases like tuberculosis.
The system
undermined our traditional indigenous food systems.
Our communities had been growing their own foods.
They had their own systems based on hunting,
fishing and farming that were completely disrupted
by the introduction of these nontraditional foods.
This led to a large loss of cultural knowledge
and practices around indigenous food and agriculture.
Finally, the ration system was often used as a means of control and coercion
by the US government by controlling the distribution of food and supplies.
The government could exert control over these communities
and force them to comply with government policies.
The result of this is just an annihilation
of cultural identity and a knowledge of the traditional foods,
as well as a lack of control over their own systems.
And it led to indigenous food insecurity that has continued
to perpetuate into today.
And I will say that
just adding on to this conversation that we're having reservations.
A lot of people have the misconception that they are
lands that were won during treaties.
That's not true.
Reservations are literally P.O.W.
camps, prisoner of war camps.
Where to?
Today, Indigenous people are assigned by numbers to those camps.
The other thing too, about this is a lot of people don't understand
is that there was actually shoot to kill orders legal shoot to kill orders.
And if you were caught off the reservation,
I think in parties of two or more, it was legal
for them to kill you no matter what age, gender, sex, creed.
It didn't matter as long as you're indigenous.
And so they weren't allowed to leave the reservation territories.
And let's say for example, like Plains,
Indigenous people, Plains Indigenous people are nomadic.
Their food source is the buffalo is it is the bison.
So for them not to be able to and even the plantain plants
that they eat, like la silla for example, that's cultivated along the bison,
you know, built basically.
And so not having access to this, they had to be 100%
reliant on
the US government.
As Ali said.
And just a quick, quick like a quick like, I guess, question to the group,
do you guys know when the last shoot to kill order law was removed?
So yes, some of them are still on the books.
They were moved in Colorado last year.
They removed the law
just to let you know how how fresh
these things still are, because the other misconception is that
indigenous rights are something of the past
and that they have all their rights or that there aren't any biased laws,
they're still bias laws.
So yeah, and the state of Colorado, the shoot to kill order was removed last year.
Just to put things into perspective.
So and I don't know if you guys talked about this
because this is a little bit removed but is still related.
And you might have heard about this on social media, on the news,
because it sort of all finally started coming out during the pandemic,
since people had time to really stop and dig deeper into these things.
But there was a creation
of residential schools both in the United States and Canada,
with the aim of forced assimilation
and erasing indigenous culture and knowledge.
The children were forcibly removed
from their families and communities and sent to schools
where they were not allowed to practice their traditional ways of life.
The schools promoted Eurocentric agricultural practices
and discouraged traditional indigenous farming practices and knowledge.
Residential schools also prevented children from interacting
with traditional farming stewards, such as elders and other community members
who held the knowledge of their traditional ecological practices.
Between 1830 and 1950,
Officials tested experimental medicine, such as vaccines
on indigenous children.
They also withheld nutritional supplements and food to test the limits of hunger
and conducted unnecessary operations on seemingly healthy children.
Some of the nutritional guidelines that are used in schools
today are a result of these experiments.
So they literally tested how long these children could go
without eating before they would die.
This loss of life and traditional economic article
knowledge has contributed to the ongoing environmental degradation
and food insecurity for Indigenous communities.
Efforts to reclaim traditional ecological knowledge
and promote Indigenous led initiatives for food sovereignty are crucial
for addressing the ongoing impacts of the residential schools
and today's colonization.
I'll take this one, Brooke.
So not only was it that we had the shoot to kill orders and stuff like that,
but for bands of indigenous people that were resisting
and not being pushed or put on these reservation systems,
another tactic, aside from, you know,
having limitations
of food only providing commands and stuff like that was going
into the natural environment and literally plundering and destroying food sources.
So the Plains tribes, I think specifically with the Lakota nation,
they actually won several wars against the U.S.
and were very successful and they were having hard times
really being able to overpower their there.
And still a lot of their war tactics are actually studied in the military today
and are used as like
kind of like case studies on how to win battlegrounds from the Lakota people.
So one of the tactics that they did was they actually started
to exterminate bison and do bison slaughters.
Now, this had several aspects to it.
It starved out indigenous people because they went from
16 million.
It's estimated that there were 60 million wild buffalo to
the decimation was so bad that today we only have
20,000 wild buffalo
and that's due to also breeding and conservation efforts.
So that's like basically
basically genocide
against the population of New York City about seven times over.
If you just think about it like seven whole New York cities of Buffalo gone.
That's how much decimation there was.
So that was one aspect of controlling that food source
was to kind of quell indigenous rebellions and stuff like that and starve them out.
And then the other thing was to establish grazing lands
for pastoralism and to get their cows there and stuff like that.
And so what we see as like the dairy belt today
is actually those old
ranching
communities that were participatory.
And this in order to privatize land
for eventually the cattle and dairy industry.
Just wanted to add in that the photograph that's on
the screen is a mountain of buffalo heads like their skulls.
So you can just see visually just how many creatures were murdered
just to try to starve out the communities that were still resisting.
Yeah, there's this article.
I think we probably have it in the resources guide.
Maybe somewhere if we don't, will put it in later.
But there is this article
where they looked at
basically climate and temperature ranges
and it was shown that there was so much genocide
that had happened in the Americas of plant
flora, fauna and humans
that not one.
It's estimated that about 100
and 100 million Indigenous people passed on due to this.
But also it was so much death
and devastation that it literally changed the climate,
like the global climate.
That's how how much
how many people, animals and plants actually died
during this this event.
Okay.
So just some stats we wanted to show you.
Like what are the long lasting effects of all of this?
Obviously, we know it's a lot
and one slide couldn't surmount all the effects it had.
But just looking at the current state today, indigenous community prior to COVID
had compared to the national average was food deficit
by 41%
during the pandemic.
And because of inflation and things like that, it's gone up to 214% food deficit.
That means that food insecure by a lot.
We have
about 25
26% of indigenous people living in poverty,
according to the 2018 census.
I would say that it's more than that.
I know that there are some reservations.
For example, my partner's reservation is 85% unemployment,
and that is because of the reservation systems
and policies that restrict the economy and building and stuff like that
and that have kind of put them into that that status for a long time.
So I think that this might be even underreported, especially during
the pandemic, things got even worse.
So in 2019, the overall unemployment rate for American Indians
or Alaska Natives was 6.1%, compared to 3.7%
nationwide.
And as we spoke in the last slide, the population of bison
was reduced from 20 million to 20000 in the wild today.
So really devastating impacts.
60% of the global food eaten around
the world is actually Native American food.
And that's because during the Colombian exchange,
what they call the Colombian exchange, I don't think it's an exchange at all.
I think it's the colonial Colombian theft.
But there was a lot of potato of corn and a lot of agricultural
inventions that
indigenous people across the Americas have created.
And it they're very hardy.
Right.
So traditional corn, traditional potatoes
need very little input to produce a lot of yields.
And so as the settlers are discovering these, you know, discovering,
quote unquote, these new foods are interacting
for the first time, they're seeing how little is needed
to actually raise them and pull them apart
and and to establish them.
And so what we see across the world is basically
I was reading I think it's a book called The Indian Giver.
I think the World Hunger went down by almost 70%
after the so-called Columbian Exchange through the Americas.
And I think it's a little bit like me and Ali were actually talking about this
the other day, just like kind of the sadness around
like, look at these stats, 240% food insecurity.
We have a reduction
of buffalo to two basically very low populations.
20,000 is not a lot at all.
And we have indigenous people who don't have access to food
and who don't have access
to traditional lands, don't only what percent of traditional labs are left.
Yet we see the world from this.
The situation come out of a food deficit of nearly 70% and still today
60% of the world's foods are eaten globally are Native American foods.
And it's like I have placed a word for it, but I feel like it's
it's just a sadness around that, that, yes, you know, you have these people
that are being helped, but the people who helped us get there aren't
being focused or centered on within the Americas.
And that is a grievous act of injustice.
I don't know, Ali, if there's
anything you want to add to that.
I don't know.
It's it's it's
it's almost ironic, aren't the right word to use that
the people who cultivated these foods are the ones that are now
struggling to, like, have a proper nutrition.
Like, I know one of the things we talked about
was the creation of the Indian taco and the sort of contentious history
as both a celebration of survival and a sort of necessary,
unhealthy thing that helped the people at the time survive.
So, you know, when you have like all this, like flour and bread
and you don't have access to those original foods, you have to adapt.
And if you look at cuisine like throughout the world, especially
for colonized peoples, a lot of the dishes that they have are about adaptation.
How do we make do with what we have
to, you know, feed our children to feed ourselves and our elders,
even though it's not always nutritionally sound?
And so you see now that there are restaurants where
the foraged foods are on the menu and they cost so much money, but
our ancestors were cultivating these foods and foraging for them for generations.
And still to this day, some of them can't access
some of that food because they just they're cut off on their land.
It's all been privatized.
Oh, not to
mention the the impact of like foods, like fry breads, for example,
that have become, you know, staples of resistance.
But in the same token, because they aren't traditional foods have caused,
you know, havoc on the body, you know, indigenous people face
some of the highest rates of diabetes and hypertension. And,
you know, it just it's it's really has long lasting effects.
And these some of the things that you know, why we're here today
with you guys to kind of really hone in on these things is very important.
You know, not many people do focus on indigenous issues.
So now we're getting into, you know, closer to today
and the indigenous food and sovereignty movement.
So contemporary Indigenous land and sovereignty movement seekers
seek to reclaim and protect Indigenous people's rights to their traditional lands
and food systems.
We recognize the importance of our systems of indigenous
cultural identity, health and wellbeing.
The movement includes traditional chefs, native producers,
treaty rights activists, nonprofits like ours
and others working to reclaim land and promote sustainable practices.
The movement has gained momentum in recent years
as our communities continue to resist the destructive impacts
of colonialism, environmental degradation and corporate exploitation.
Indigenous
activists and organizations are working to reclaim
land, water and food systems and promote sustainable practices
that prioritize the needs of the needs and knowledge of our communities.
Many of our kin put their bodies on the line
to protect our natural resources.
This movement is a critical aspect of the broader struggle for indigenous
rights to self-determination in a powerful expression of our resilience
in the face of ongoing colonialism and oppression.
So just a little quick,
like happy part of this, after all that sadness
is just taking a look at what today's Fast food movement looks like.
It's finally entering the global consciousness.
Indigenous chefs like the winner of season one of Next Level Chef.
The Spain are sharing their traditional culinary excellence with the world.
There are more native owned and operated restaurants,
farms and producers than ever before.
Indigenous activists have paved the way for visibility
in a nation where they attempted to annihilate us.
And so these are just examples of like a wonderful Indigenous owned restaurant
that serves traditional indigenous foods, which is walk up US kitchen.
This is just a picture of some elders excited to be pulling up corn
and vegetables that they grew themselves on an Indigenous owned farm.
It's Goldsborough Farm and obviously, you know, the winner of Next Level
Chef, just to show that we're more visible.
We're moving away from this sort of language of being a people of the past
and more into a living presence in the United States.
And so now we get to us.
So our nonprofit Grindstone Collective aims to protect documents
and uplift our indigenous ecological knowledge through first foods.
And our first Roots program has three core branches of change.
And those are education, reciprocity
and stewardship.
When I go back,
you're muted.
Woops.
Sorry, guys.
So our one of our core pillars is a new day for old ways,
which essentially highlights traditional ecological knowledge keepers.
We have everything from chefs to foragers to
aunts, uncles, children, everybody who wants to basically present
some of the traditional knowledge that we have.
We really like to record and keep those things, one,
because it allows us to take ownership over our own education system too.
It allows us to kind of safe keep the larger data
that we've always had.
You know, how, you know, they like to talk about big data and technological spaces.
Indigenous people have the longest, oldest track of big data you'll ever find,
talking about millennia of not millennia millenniums of education.
And so part of our process is to really record
and to create new stewards that have this educational knowledge,
because like language and like other are the cultural systems,
because of forced assimilation.
And what we've done before,
a lot of that knowledge is actually being lost very quickly.
So as a part of our program, we to traditionalists
and their knowledge and try to safeguard it and keep it
for the next generation as quickly as possible.
So the next pillar is our reciprocity.
And for us, that's our intertribal Food pantry,
our events bring together native producers and indigenous communities,
including especially urban natives, who are often cut off from access
to a lot of these foods and sort of forced to eat what's available in larger cities
in the last six months, actually a little bit longer than that.
Now we deliver over £8,000 of food for free
to Indigenous communities, including for bison.
We've also done more to make something that was no better at this
place. Yes, yes.
Just like a lot of like the foods that people can't always find.
And I think one of the best parts about it is just seeing how excited people
are to see some of their more traditional foods that they maybe have not eaten
in a couple of years
just because it's not available to them in the metropolitan areas.
We also have a digital database of native producers from around the country.
It's the largest searchable database online and it's growing daily.
So, you know, we are working to make sure folks know who's out there,
you know, what they're producing, so that we as indigenous people
can support our kin and their entrepreneurial, entrepreneurial
processes.
And so stewardship is our third program,
which is where we're merging with our group on Amity.
And really stewardship is about
restoring agro biospheres, using tech, traditional ecological knowledge.
And so looking at our spaces is not just
kind of looking at it as a as a different way than how conservation
looks at it, because usually conservation uses what's called terra nullius,
which is this idea of a pristine land that's never been touched
by indigenous people or by people in general, not just us.
And that, you know,
we just here to conserve some keystone species and animals, and that's it.
And for indigenous conservation, environmentalism is all intertwined.
Food security, land maintenance, climate change, agro biosphere restoration.
And then us, our cultures are intertwined.
They cannot be separated.
So Stuart's is really looking to look at land, land access
and conservation through the upliftment of traditional knowledge
so that we can restore our ecosystems and our food spheres.
And so I guess
just to sort of wrap things up, these are some of the main points
that we hope you guys can take away from this conversation.
Indigenous food sovereignty recognizes the importance of Indigenous
Indigenous knowledge in traditional food systems.
Indigenous people have developed diverse and resilient food systems
over thousands of years based on our intimate relationships
with the land, water and biodiversity.
He says some provide not only food and nutrition,
but also cultural, social and spiritual values.
Our movement is rooted
in the revitalization and protection of traditional food systems,
the transmission of knowledge from elders to you,
and the recognition of indigenous intellectual property rights.
We are challenging the colonial and capitalist models
of food production and consumption that have been imposed on us
in indigenous communities, often leading to food insecurity, abuse,
malnutrition, cultural race, or that we've all seen today.
Indigenous food sovereignty assert asserts our rights
as indigenous peoples to control our food systems
and make decisions based on our own values and needs.
Indigenous food sovereignty is linked to the environmental
sustainability and food justice movements of the world.
Food systems are part of larger ecosystems and larger social systems.
We promote practices that respect and protect the environment,
such as agroecology, biodiversity, conservation and land stewardship.
We are addressing the root causes of food insecurity and poverty
and inequality by creating opportunities for indigenous peoples
to participate in the food economy on their own terms.