MINAL PATHAK: Hello, everyone.
My name is Minal Pathak, and I work
at the Global Center for Environment and Energy
at Ahmedabad University.
It's a city in western India.
And I also work with the UN Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change with the Mitigation Working Group.
So this is my second session for this course.
I did one on transport and emissions.
And today, I'm going to talk about heat extremes
and some findings from analysis of the heat action
plans in India.

So you would have seen similar maps like this.
This one is from the IPCC report published in 2021,
showing the historical changes in temperatures
for major cities.
So the size of the bubble around the city
indicates the population and the color indicates the heat.
So you can see, I would just point to Kolkata here in India,
that the temperature between--
I think it's 1968 to--
1958 to 2018 has increased by 2.6 degrees.

We talk about heat extremes.
And heat is impacting all cities across the world as we speak,
but the IPCC report clearly states
that, while climate action is critical,
countries face different challenges because they come
from different starting points.
And so the ability of cities and different countries
to deal with these simultaneous challenges also varies.
So coming to India, which is the focus of this session, what
is really a heat wave?
So the Meteorological Department of India
declares a heat wave when temperature exceeds 4.5 degrees
Celsius above normal and/or if the maximum temperature exceeds
40 degrees in the plains.
The temperature level for hilly regions and cities
is different.
I think it's 30 degrees.
So if it's 45, then it's a heat wave.
And if the temperature increases by six degrees,
then it's a severe heat wave.
And I know these temperatures seem, like,
too high for many of the Western contexts,
but [INAUDIBLE] historically, we are used to extreme heat.
So yeah, so 40 is normal temperature during the summers.
So this is a photo on the left showing street vendors
selling vegetables under umbrellas, facing extreme heat.
And on the right, you can see that water tanks are supplying
water to the residents from low-income neighborhoods,
because during extreme heat, the water availability goes down.
And at the bottom, you can see that there
are several factors influencing heat, but at the city level,
it's really the built form, as in concrete, open versus built
spaces and green cover, the availability of lakes or water
spaces.
At the building level, of course,
it is the choice of building material,
where the building is located, and how
it is designed to look at the incoming solar radiation.
And of course, building materials
play a very important role, too.
And at the individual level, household levels,
it's really up to how the households can manage
through cooling appliances.
So mostly in Indian households, people own fans, ceiling fans
or table fans, and very few, let's say,
high-income or middle to high-income households
also own air conditioners.
The air conditioner ownership in India is currently quite low.
It's less than 10%.
And it's a luxury.
Air conditioners are expensive to buy,
but also a lot of people cannot afford electricity bills
for air conditioners.
So this is just the current climate,
but we know that, in future, a lot of these informal workers,
which includes construction workers, street vendors,
people who work out in the open, they're
all going to be impacted because they
spend a large amount of time outdoors.
And of course, this heat in the future
is going to give rise to a huge demand for cooling,
and therefore the energy associated with cooling.
So extreme heat is not only an issue of adaptation,
but it's also an issue of climate change mitigation,
and of course the sustainable development and the well-being
of millions of people.

So a recent study looked at 37 heat action plans in India.
I believe there are over 100.
And interestingly, you'll see that the strategies mentioned
in these heat plan range from providing cooling centers
to ensuring water supply to informing citizens when there
is a heat wave, developing guidelines, capacity building
of the health professionals.
And a few of these plans also look at long-term strategies,
like green cover and building materials.
But very few plans really mainstream heat
into urban development.
And I'll just come to that in a bit.
So from the same study, the authors found that only 5%
of the heat plans that they studied
had explicit vulnerability assessments.
So they identified which specific groups
would be impacted in the case of extreme heat.
So they were based on scientific evidence.
The second donut shows that only 30% of the plans
actually had funding mechanisms associated with the plan, where
the resources would come from.
And the extreme right, you see that about 40% of the plans
had mechanisms for monitoring and review of the plan.
Some of those were just one-time, single-plan
documents.
So the big takeaway is that future climate projections
are really not considered in the existing heat action plans.
I'll just come to my city here briefly
to discuss what's going on in Ahmedabad with the heat
planning.
So Ahmedabad is the seventh largest city in India.
It's got a population of over 7 million people.
And you can see from the map on the slide
that, over time, it has increased and sprawled
and covers the metropolitan region.
So the city municipal corporation is about 500 square
kilometers, but the larger region is much larger,
at 1,800-odd square kilometers.
And it's governed by the Ahmedabad Municipal
Corporation.
Originally, Ahmedabad developed on the east,
and then the built form in the east and the west.
And this is that river that divides Ahmedabad
into east and west.
And the built form on the west is
very different from the built form
in the east, which was more suited to the local climate.
So it was high density, but low rise
and with the traditional cooling design.
So they had more ventilation, different kinds
of what you call construction which
left spaces in the buildings for air to circulate.
And largely in the new buildings,
we're seeing more high-rises and glass, and mainly
concrete and steel.
So this is a typical low-income housing constructed
with government funding.
And I don't even need to explain this image, right?
You can see absolutely there's no green space.
And while it serves the function of housing,
but you can imagine what happens here when temperatures
go to 45 degrees.
There's no shade available and very little
circulation indoors.
This is a typical low-income settlement, again in the city.
And you can see this is sort of temporary roofs.
And you can see that these are made up of metal.
And we did a study in 2016 for 800 households in Ahmedabad,
and we found that, in some of these households,
the temperature indoors was higher than temperature
outdoors because they had no ventilation
and because these tin roofs would get heated up
in the afternoon and really sort of almost bake
the indoor environment.
And there are people who live and work here.
You can see the first floor here,
where there is a workspace for people.
And it's just inhuman working conditions here.
This is also another slum settlement.
You can see that the housing materials are entirely
temporary, makeshift, with poor drainage and water supply
facilities.
And this is common occurrence across large cities in India.
So Ahmedabad city was among the first to develop a heat
action plan.
In fact, it's become the role model for cities in South Asia.
Based on Ahmedabad's plan, a large number of cities
developed their heat action plan.
And interestingly, this was a great example of collaboration,
where the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation collaborated
with researchers with an international organization
and with stakeholders to develop this heat action plan.
And it's been 10 years since the heat action plan.
It's time really to look at it.
The plan is based on an early warning system,
so alerting people when there is a heat wave,
asking them to go to appropriate shelters,
and also establishing an emergency response system.
And early evidence after the plan was implemented
showed that the plan helped save thousands of deaths.
So I think the number is over 2,000
people lives were saved after the implementation
of this plan.
And we don't have data for morbidity.
But you can see on the bottom right
that there are types of alerts.
When temperature crosses 45 degrees, it's a red alert day.
And similarly, between 43 and 44.9, it's an orange alert.
So people are informed.
And health professionals have been trained to address heat.
And as I showed you, so what happens here,
this shows the institutional setup
that's outlined in the heat action plan.
So when there is a heat warning, the Ahmedabad Municipal
Corporation nodal officer informs different agencies.
So you can see the state disaster management authority.
You can see non-governmental groups.
You can see on the right that there are
alerts through mobile phones.
And then this goes to these different organizations,
like hospitals, like water supply, like the power company,
like transportation, like schools to protect children,
but also to provide shelter spaces.
So really, it was a great plan.
And this became, as I said, a model for future plans.
But we are now at a stage where we need to do more.
For example, the plan remains as a response-based plan.
And we really need now to move from just alerts to more
mainstreaming this as a citywide strategy.
And we're still building cities the way we used to.
And that's not really going to work.
So all the concrete and all these high-rises,
they're not adapted for future heat.
And there is a real estate lobby,
as [INAUDIBLE] other cities, right?
So how do you move away from also addressing
these political and economic models of building
construction, of urban planning?
What are those policies and regulations
that we need to reduce the cooling demand?
How do we provide cooling to those who need it the most,
but in the most efficient way and maybe
through cleaner energy?
So I've outlined a few of the strategies below,
but of course you can think about this,
and this needs a lot more discussion.
But very quickly, you know that, taking
from the analysis of the heat action plan,
we really need a city-level understanding of future climate
scenarios, so downscale scenarios,
really understanding of where the hotspots are within cities.
So we don't have, in India, information
on what, for example, what might happen to Ahmedabad
or my state, Gujarat state, in the case of, say,
an RCP 4.5 scenario or a different type of scenario.
The second thing is we really need
to innovate with our building and construction policies.
Currently, the level of ambition is very low, even
for new buildings.
And when given the scale at which construction
is happening or will happen, we need
to both raise the ambition for mandates,
but also provide incentives, for example, to encourage builders
to adopt simple interventions like cool roofs,
like rainwater harvesting.
How do we retrofit?
Because for new construction, it's
a different model, but what about the existing buildings
which are already locked into a certain kind of exposure?
So this is challenging.
It's short-termism versus building long-term strategies.
We've lost green cover.
We've lost blue spaces over time.
We've got to bring them back.
And that's challenging because land is scarce.
The Indian cities are very dense.
So it's not going to be easy, but if we don't, we
are locked into a really unsustainable future, which
is both energy-intensive but also not equitable,
that the poorest and the most vulnerable
will be the most affected.
And heat action plans based on response measures
alone will not get us there.
We need incentives to change people's behavior.
I suppose there is some awareness on energy
conservation, but people also need to play a role.
It's not just the government in promoting energy-efficient
behavior.
And we need to identify which are
the most vulnerable groups in terms of housing,
but also in terms of their occupation.
And we need to design strategies specifically
for these different groups.
So I'm going to stop here.
Thank you so much for listening.
And hope this provides some food for thought.
