
JESSIE SINGER: Hello, my name is Jesse Singer.
I'm a journalist and the author of the book,
There Are No Accidents the Deadly Rise
of Injury and Disaster Who Profits
and Who Pays the Price, which is published by Simon and Schuster
in 2022.
The book chronicles the history of accidents in the United
States and the current catastrophic rise
in preventable injuries, fatalities,
and environmental disasters.
Today, I'm going to speak with you
about why these so-called accidents are
inextricable from climate change in the urban environment.
But before I dive in, let's take a step back and get oriented.
More than 225,000 people are killed
in accidents in the United States every year.
More than 62 million are injured.
This includes a wide range of dangers including
traffic accidents, accidental drug overdoses,
falls, shootings, and fires among other causes.
Essentially, this is every way we
die in America outside of disease
and intentional violence.
And the problem is getting worse.
After decades of decline, accidental death
has been rising since 1992, growing nearly 160%
in that time.
But please imagine scare quotes any time that I or anyone else
calls these accidents.
Because none of these deaths or injuries
are actually accidental.
Rather, each is a predictable, preventable result
of systemic inequality.
Accidents are supposed to be random.
But if that were true, accidental death
would fall randomly across the country.
It does not.
Instead, Black people, indigenous people,
and people living in poverty are most likely to die by accident.
And this is especially true for those accidents
where policy and infrastructure make
the difference between life and death
such as the safety of our homes, our roads, and our workplaces.
We often think of accidents as a matter
of personal responsibility, of who did what wrong.
But Black people, indigenous people,
and people living in poverty are not more accident prone
or less responsible.
Rather, accidental death is a matter of risk exposure.
And we are simply not all exposed to the same risks.
So how does this relate to the growing threat of climate
change in our cities?
Here's how.
Climate change exposes us all to more risk.
Every day, we all see more dangerous conditions
in our daily lives, bigger storms, hotter summers,
weirder weather.
And in dense urban environments, the likelihood
is much higher that these dangerous conditions
lead to bodily harm.
And as a result, as the world warms and sea levels rise,
we all face a higher likelihood of accidental death.
For people of color and people living in poverty,
the likelihood is even higher and growing.
Let's look at a few examples.

One way that climate change is driving the accidental death
rate is that Americans are freezing to death
in unheated homes in places that never
used to have snow such as the 210
who died most of hypothermia when a snowstorm struck Texas
in 2021.
Another way that climate change is driving the accidental death
rate is that Americans are overheating in apartments when
the power goes out, which has been happening at an increasing
rate as the world gets warmer.
The number of power failures in the US
has risen 60% since 2015.
And earning an estimated 12,000 a year
die premature heat related deaths.
Today, we also see climate change
driving a trend of accidental drowning
when the remnants of larger than ever storms
strike as hard as the storms themselves such as the 43
who died in and around New York city in 2021.
Many killed in flooded basement apartments
when the lingering aftermath of a hurricane that made landfall
as far away as Louisiana broke rainfall records
all the way on the east coast.
And today, climate emergencies are driving us
to desperate migration, which is also leading to accidents
such as those killed crossing the Us Mexico border in 2021,
in April, 13 dead of 25 people crammed inside an SUV
crossing into California, and in August, at least 10
killed of the 30 crammed inside a van crossing into Texas.
Even the promised solutions to climate change
come with a disastrous rise in accidents.
Consider the electric vehicle.
Researchers anticipate that the massive batteries required
to power electric vehicles will increase vehicle weight enough
to require longer stopping distances
and lead to a further rise in fatal crashes,
especially for people walking, biking,
and in smaller, older, less heavy vehicles, all of which
are the more likely forms of transportation for low income
people and people of color.
So what is to be done?
The solution to climate change is known,
but while we wait for world leaders
to take the necessary global systemic action,
we must protect people from the risks that
rise as the problem remains unsolved.
Accidents, both those born of climate change
and not happen in America and happen here at outsize rates
compared to our peer countries around the globe because we
pretend the accidental death is a product
of people who are accident prone or irresponsible.
And empowered by this magical thinking,
we do nothing to protect those people.
It is no coincidence that this same myopia
about individual decision making appears
like clockwork in the climate conversation as well.
To end the accident epidemic, we must
reject this parable of personal responsibility
and instead, seek out the potential
of systemic protection, laws, policies, regulations,
and infrastructure that protect people
from harm even if they are accident
prone or irresponsible.
If we apply this harm reduction model
to every corner of the urban built environment,
constructing our workplaces, roads, and homes but also
our laws and policies with a focus
on reducing accident related damage,
we can reduce the death toll of climate change
in the immediate future.
Remember that the people who die most often by accident
and the people most threatened by climate change
are often the most vulnerable, the youngest and the oldest,
the most discriminated against, and the least wealthy.
We have to start there.
We have to start by concerning ourselves with vulnerability.
As you hear about more accidents borne of a warming
climate in the coming years, understand
that blame is a food chain, and always look to the top.
Who has the most power?
Who can have the greatest effect?
The answer is very rarely those harmed.
People who blame individuals whether for climate change
or the accidents that follow are almost always
drawing attention away from the systems that
allowed the death and destruction
and the vast potential for prevention.
Start there.
OK, that's all from me.
Thank you for your time and for allowing
me to share this lesson for my book,
There Are No Accidents with you today.