
JIM ALOISI: Hi.
I'm Jim Aloisi.
I teach urban transportation planning and policy
here at DUSP, and I'm here today to talk with you
about sustainable mobility.
And I want to give you my perspective
on understanding this term, a term that's
often overused, I think, and that it's important for us
to be aligned in our thinking about
if we're going to be effective urban transportation planners
or policymakers.
And my question that comes up a lot
is, is the term sustainable mobility conceptually useful
or has it become an empty vessel?
The question really there is, has it become an empty vessel
by overuse?
But let's begin with understanding
the essential elements of sustainability, right?
We call it the 3E triangle.
Sustainability, generally, is about equity, the environment,
and the economy.
And its essential meaning, obviously,
may be using transportation resources
in a manner that preserves them for future generations.
That's what the dictionary definition of sustainability
will tell you.
The Brundtland Commission, which is a commission dating back
to the 1980s, United Nations commission,
reported out a bunch of findings and discussed sustainability
in this 3E context for the first time,
and it's been generally adopted by people
globally as an accepted framework for thinking
about sustainability.
It has the virtue of simplicity of expression.
It may lack the clarity of shared understanding.
And so we ask ourselves, what are we trying to describe?
When we talk about sustainability,
what are we trying to understand and respond to?
What policies are we trying to promote?
What future are we trying to build?
And in the transportation sector,
these are compelling questions that oftentimes
don't have answers that are aligned across modes
or across the way people think.
So what we mean when we talk about
transportation sustainability is--
and I'll use this throughout.
It's sort of a pathway to thinking, right?
And it's a pathway with many components.
Certainly we focus on economy, environment, and equity,
and certainly we're committed to using today's resources
to meet not just today's needs, but to also not compromise
the equitable distribution of resources for tomorrow's needs.
So I'll go through my prior thinking,
which is conventional thinking about sustainable mobility
and what it means.
That pathway with many components
essentially means for filling mobility needs
by providing maximum access in a form that's
green, that's agile and resilient,
and that's egalitarian.
Now let's deconstruct each of those terms in a way that
may be helpful to you.
So what do we mean by green.
Right?
I think most everyone, when they hear the word sustainable
mobility, will think green.
Let's deconstruct it.
I think green means a variety of things.
It means less reliance on fossil fuels.
That can be expressed as our transition to electric vehicles
and electric equipment for transit agencies.
It can be expressed as offering people
viable, multimodal options like transit,
like cycling, like walking.
The more zero emissions modes we can move people to,
the more we can reduce our reliance on fossil fuels.
And as we all know, the question of whether EVs are net zero,
really, from a well to wheel perspective,
it's good that electric vehicles don't emit carbon emissions,
but we cannot say that electric vehicles rely not at all
on fossil fuels.
In fact, they rely quite a bit on fossil fuels.
We'll get to that when we talk about decarbonization.
Green also means, I think, reconsidering the built
environment, the built domain.
Right?
Are we promoting design initiatives
like protected safe cycling lanes and complete streets
and bus rapid transit, the kinds of alterations,
particularly in the urban setting to the built
domain, that would promote a more sustainable multimodal use
of different modes.
Are we promoting land use policies
that support multimodal mobility, particularly
transit oriented development?
And finally, are we encouraging mode shift?
Are we providing people with meaningful modal choices
that are viable from a schedule and affordability perspective?
Are those modal choices connected?
Do we have pricing strategies for roads
that fairly assess the costs and externalities of automobility?
Are we exploring the potential financial power
of transit improvement districts where municipalities
might be able to assess a local fee or tax that
promote more sustainable modes?
Are we leveraging the power of retrospective real time
information to provide people with more power
to make more informed choices before they
start their daily journey?
All of those factors come into play
in terms of what we mean when we talk about green.
When we talk about agile and resistant--
resilient, we're talking about being responsive to changing
paradigms and preferences.
We've seen this happening with the emergence of microtransit
and ride hailing.
How responsive are we to those changing preferences,
particularly from a public transportation perspective?
Are we providing reliable services?
Are we able to keep up with and fund
routine and programmed maintenance of transit systems?
This is really critical, and we've
seen in at least two occasions in the United States,
two major transit agencies come under basically a safety
receivership from the Federal Transit Administration
because they weren't able to keep up with or fund
routine and program maintenance well enough.
Does the public sector, in particular have the ability
to keep pace with innovation?
Are we being responsive to public health consideration?
Not just resilience of the pandemics,
but the fact that even if we move to an all
electric automobility platform, we are still
going to be faced with high levels of particulate matter
emissions, and are we being responsive to that?
And obviously climate resilience all factor
into the second prong of my definition of sustainable
mobility.
And third, is it egalitarian, right?
What does that mean?
It doesn't mean just equitable.
It means, is the system accessible and convenient?
Do you have access within a half mile walk of a bus or trolley
node or subway node?
Do you live in a 15 or 20 minute neighborhood?
Are transit schedules responding to your journey needs?
Are they connected or do you have
to make multiple transfers?
Is the system affordable?
Basic question about the system being egalitarian.
And finally, is the system equitable?
Equity means many things.
I think it means modal funding equity.
Is each mode getting its fair share of state and federal
and municipal funding?
Process equity.
Are all voices heard when decisions
are being made about bus routes, for example,
locations of routes?
Regional equity.
Are we leaving people behind, particularly
people who've been displaced from the inner core because
of high costs of housing?
Social equity and decarbonization equity,
which we'll get into more depth when I talk
with you about decarbonization.
One thing to note about the triangle, the 3E triangle,
equity, environment, and economy,
is that there's a time factor.
Right?
There's a time value to the reduction of carbon emissions.
There's a time value to behavior change
if you're trying to encourage mode shift.
There's a time value to making investments.
And so when we think about equity,
we need to think about those time values
and how they may impact the ability to move the needle
more quickly or not.
That sustainability time dimension I show here.
So for example, there may be short and long term strategies
to use or questions to ask with regard
to the economy and the environment and equity, right?
In the short term, for example, inequity.
Who's being harmed?
Are those folks being made whole?
Is that real-- that's justice more than so than equity.
Who's benefiting from any transit or mobility
intervention?
And in the long term you ask other questions, particularly
on the transit side.
Does gentrification displace people
if you improve people's transit opportunity?
So there's a time dimension to sustainability
that I think you want to keep in mind as you
think about the meaning the full meaning of the term, right?
There's a technology dimension.
Support for low emissions choices
may involve you thinking about a variety of topics,
equitable EV charging.
Does everyone have easy access, affordable access
when they need it to charging?
Or bus rapid transit elements that
are incentives for people to mode shift
to bus, particularly in urban corridors, right?
There's a technology dimension to pricing,
to pricing roads in particular, if we're
going encourage mode shift by assessing people fairly
for the cost of driving.
So if you think about sustainability with both time
and technology dimensions, you can
see that it enriches your thinking about how to promote
and how to provide a sustainable mobility system.
Here's an example of what I would consider
an interesting way to think about a policy framework
for sustainable mobility.
If it includes reducing automobility by using carrots
and sticks, it talks about maintaining
transit state of good repair.
It talks about improving your modal options,
particularly thinking about connectivity and frequencies
and schedules.
It talks about a shift to sustainability
by providing people with those viable modal options.
Now quickly I want to get to my emerging thinking, which
is to think about not sustainable mobility
but what I call optimal mobility.
It's a new way of thinking about transportation sector
sustainability.
And I propose that be looking at the topic of optimal mobility
as a descriptive that ensures the maximum number of people
have efficient, reliable, and affordable access provided
by low or zero emissions mode that's
sufficient to meet their needs.
This is a definition I've been working on as a way
to think a little differently about sustainable mobility
and to think about it in a more holistic way.
And if you think about optimal mobility as a concept,
it's still a pathway with many components, right?
It's providing that maximum number
of people with efficient, reliable,
and affordable access through low or zero emissions modes
that's sufficient to meet their needs.
It's also a mobility system that's
supporting a vibrant multisector economy, both small and large
business.
It's a system that's addressing public health by reducing
emissions-- and not just carbon, but also particulate matter
emissions--
and it's supporting social cohesion.
People get together on transit.
There's an important social cohesion benefit
to providing people with access via public transportation.
And finally, I'll wrap up with a thought about a sustainability
response to the pandemic and a framework
for your consideration.
Some guiding principles about how
to build back better sustainably out of the pandemic
might be to think about our work, our actions,
our policies, our interventions in connection
with whether they promote social cohesion.
Public health.
Do they promote the small business economy?
Do they promote urban density without crowding?
And obviously, do they promote equity?
And you can take those guiding principles
and frame them as specific policies and interventions,
which I list here by way of example.
Frequent all day transit and rail service,
a commitment to innovation and connection,
a public transportation system powered by electricity
not diesel locomotives, for example.

An effort to reduce high auto mobility subsidies, which
is still something that we deal with every day,
and a commitment to decarbonization equity.
I hope this was helpful and I hope
this piqued your interest in thinking differently
about the topic of sustainable mobility.
I'll be back with a different lecture
talking about transportation sector decarbonization.
Thank you for your time.