
PROFESSOR: Urbanization is often associated
with elevated surface and air temperature,
a condition referred to as the urban heat island.
Urban centers and cities are often several degrees warmer
than their surrounding areas.
This is due to the low albedo, which
means reflectivity, of urban surfaces,
such as rooftops and asphalt roadways, the trapping
of radiation within the urban canopy, differential heat
storage, and greater surface roughness.
For all these reasons, cities trap heat.
As well, the high density of urban environments
often leads to intense anthropogenic heat releases
within smaller spatial scales, such as
from critical urban infrastructure
systems such as transportation hubs or energy facilities.
These can also enhance the urban heat island.
Now besides temperature and the urban heat island,
this dense urban environment can also
have impacts on other climate variables.
For example, there is evidence that precipitation
can be enhanced downwind of highly urbanized areas.
One possible mechanism for this is
that the buildings within a city provide a source of lift
for air, which, combined with a destabilized environment
due to the heat island, leads to cloud development
and precipitation.
There are also examples of greater incidence
of extreme precipitation events over cities
compared to the adjacent rural areas,
possibly due to enhance convection
due to the urban heat island.
The urban heat island may also influence thunderstorm
composition and structure.
An additional urban phenomenon called
the urban moisture island or urban moisture excess
refers to condition where higher humidity values are
observed in cities relative, again,
to outside the city and more rural areas.
The primary mechanisms for these differences
are evaporation, condensation, advection,
and anthropogenic emissions of water vapor.
That's human caused emissions of water vapor,
let's say from the lake in Central Park, for example.
Variations in the climate due to natural processes
influence urban climate risk.
The effects from human activities on the climate
system, what we know as climate change,
are superimposed on this background
of the natural and already occurring urban climate
variability.
To come to the topic of natural climate variability,
we bring in the major modes of this variability.
You've probably all heard of the El Nino Southern Oscillation
and so, which brings storms, for example,
to the West Coast of the United States.
There are other major modes of variability as well,
one in the North Atlantic called the North Atlantic Oscillation,
the NAO, and another called the Madden Julian Oscillation,
the MJO.
So all of these major modes are occurring all around the world
as well.
These modes can affect not only monthly, seasonal,
and annual mean temperature or precipitation totals,
but they can also, and even more significantly,
affect the frequency and intensity of extreme events
that can produce natural disasters.
And this can happen, of course, in all regions of the world,
but for this course we really care about
that these modes can affect cities and disasters in cities
as well.
The availability and dissemination
of seasonal forecast information,
based in part on the modes of natural climate variability,
have the potential to inform decision
making in many urban areas.
The known teleconnections between a climate variability
mode and a specific climate variable for a given city
could aid planning and management of urban sectors,
including public health, water resources, and energy.
Now, when we turn to climate change
there are several steps that can be followed
to develop climate projections that
can be used by cities as they plan
and implement adaptation and mitigation
strategies, both for the current climate
and for the coming decades.
A useful first step can be to scope out the main climate risk
factors for cities, and this is one
of the assignments in the class for your case study city.
This is the subset of climate hazards
that is of most consequence for a given city.
This subset of hazards is selected
on the basis of interactions between researchers
and stakeholders.
So it's not just the scientists or researchers thinking
which is the most important climate risk
variables for a given city, but we're also
speaking to the people in the city
themselves, the decision makers, the neighborhoods, neighborhood
groups, et cetera.
And then the researchers and you all
utilize expert judgment to develop
quantitative and qualitative climate hazard information.
Risk factors are generalized climate variables prioritized
by consideration of their potential importance
for a city.
So it's not that we're looking at in a very rainy area then
maybe drought is not a risk, or in a very dry area rain
is not--
although, of course with climate change
we have to be open to all possible changes--
but which are the greatest priorities for any given city.
Qualitative where possible and quantitative
where also possible statements of the likelihood of occurrence
of these tailored climate risk factors,
their potential impacts--
because it's not just what's going
on with the weather and the climate,
but it's what effects do they have in a city--
and their consequences are presented.
Examples of climate risk factors include heat waves,
coastal floods, intense precipitation events,
and droughts, all of which can impact urban areas depending
on the locations.
After initially scoping the climate risk factors,
downscaled climate projections can be developed for cities.
There are two types of models that we use,
global climate models--
they're known as GCMs--
and regional climate models, RCMs.
These are both tools that scientists
use to predict future climate at the local scale.
GCM results are often statistically
downscaled to provide information
at higher spatial resolution for the cities around the world.
This is less common for the regional climate models
because they are already downscaled dynamically.
Incorporating the latest climate model outputs
and using a combination of climate models and emissions
scenarios linked to possible future greenhouse gas
concentrations produces a matrix of output for a given climate
variable.
This allows for each time period in the future
a model based range of outcomes.
That is, a distribution that shows for any given threshold
the number of climate models and emission scenario results
that are at, above, or below that threshold.
So to give an example here, let's say
heatwaves are defined with a threshold in Fahrenheit, three
or more days at 90 degrees Fahrenheit or above.
And when we look--
when we look at the climate projections for a given city,
how many days, more days are projected
to be in heat wave conditions?
This is the real climate risk information,
which is used to inform risk based decision making
so that we can get ready.
For example, cooling centers for older people in cities.
Then that's a potential recommendation
to our city decision makers department
of health, for example, to develop and establish
more cooling centers in future decades.
The presentation of such model based outcomes to stakeholders
should also include clear statements
about associated uncertainties, which
include uncertainties in future greenhouse gas emissions.
We don't know exactly what the trajectory will
be of the greenhouse gases across the world,
and how the climate system will respond.
There's also the natural climate variability
that we were discussing earlier.
And there are local processes not captured by all the climate
models, and also there is an increase in uncertainty
with finer spatial resolution.
So we're always very clear that we're doing the very best job
scientifically to make the projections,
but there are also uncertainties.
Just as we don't know exactly whether there will be rain
on next Wednesday, we don't know for sure
exactly what will happen, let's say, in January of 2050.