
ALIYU SALISU BARAU: Scientists from
different disciplinary backgrounds, people
in the development cycle, and environmental and climate
activists are adding their voices
on the need to urgently address the critical risks that
surround the rapidly urbanizing African cities, especially
in relation to the harmful climate change events.
This is very important because at the moment,
Africa is experiencing the fastest rate of urbanization,
more than any other global region.
So this is definitely Africa's new urban age.
No doubt about that.
However, this revelation is coming at a time
when the global attention is also shift into the key roles
that cities can play in responding to challenges
and opportunities associated with addressing
climate change, which is really a very complex climate crisis.
I mean, a very complex process.
So African cities may generate the lowest per capita emission.
Nevertheless, they are vulnerable to the impacts
and the pressures of human activity
on our one and shared planetary system.
So indeed, African cities also in the ship.
And if that ship sinks, then OK, that is a big problem,
and that makes it very important for them to adapt and mitigate
to these climate change effects.
In this episode, I want to talk about Kano city, the largest
city in northern Nigeria.
It is also second largest urban agglomeration in Nigeria.
Importantly, Kano provides a good example
to showcase how precolonial or traditional
African cities are vulnerable to climate
change and rapid urbanization, as the two challenges go
hand in hand.
And definitely, I think African experience
need to be understood properly.
Indeed, Kano is a very interesting city
in this context for many reasons, one of which I think
is geography, because it is located some 800 kilometers
from the edge of the Sahara Desert
and also 1,000 kilometers away from the Atlantic Ocean.
So because it is sandwiched between areas
of high and low rainfall zones, it simply
means that it is exposed to threats of the changing
climate.
It means that any threat coming from either side
could affect this city negatively.
This is a tropical area, and rainfall
is a key factor of vulnerability,
because too much rainfall is a problem.
Too little rainfall is also a problem because--
yeah.
The temperatures, they rise as well.
So these are the two.
Temperatures-- temperature and rainfall, the most critical
climate element.
And in this context, this is a city of 500--
I mean, five million people.
So this makes it important to really plan
for integration of adaptation and mitigation
into urban planning and management.
Now, looking at the records that date back to some 100 years
or more, we found that in the past
the most recurrent climatic problem for Kano
was the recurrent drought.
Droughts were being experienced in the cycle
of five to 10 years.
However, from the 1980s, Kano began
to experience unprecedented flood events,
and that has become a new feature of wet season.
There are changes in rain intensity, duration
across the rainy season.
In recent years, there are changes, like I said,
in rain intensity.
And this really looks different from what
people used to know and experience
within and around the cities.
The poor are most affected.
And for that matter, the urban poor are hit hardest.
Sometimes access to roads, markets and schools
really could be difficult for some hours or days.
And we know that meteorological records have also
shown sharp variations in other climate elements.
For instance, comparative reading
of temperature in the 1980s and 2020s
reveals that the city's temperature in some areas,
in some parts of the city actually
rose by up to [? four ?] degrees Celsius.
This is really worrying.
Similarly, even the coolest month, December, January,
and February, we also--
we are also seeing some days becoming much hotter.
And people sweat a lot in the days
when we used to consider them really as cool days.
In the same period, I would say really
that the relative humidity, the amount of moisture,
atmospheric moisture at the city level
has also reduced significantly.
Having said that, I think there are
some opportunities for African cities like Kano
which they can harness [INAUDIBLE]
on the free knowledge, I would say,
and frameworks developed by a team of disciplinary experts,
groups, and institutions.
African cities, of course their people, leaders,
and governments can learn from such transformative,
innovative, and inclusive strategies that
are being promoted through platforms such as the Urban
Climate Change Research Network [INAUDIBLE]
and resources such as the Global Research and Action Agenda
on Cities and Climate Change.
These resources, these opportunities
can support how cities like Kano can achieve
low-carbon development and also how they can integrate
urban design, Indigenous knowledge,
and experiences, urban agriculture,
traditional agriculture in promoting urban climate
resilience.
