VALERISA GADDY: Hi, everyone.
For everyone who is not in my group,
my name is Valerisa Gaddy, and I am a postdoc here
at the University of Arizona.
I received my PhD in environmental microbiology,
focusing a lot on food safety.
But right now, I'm focusing a lot more
on environmental justice issues relating to food.
So as you can see, my underlining theme
is food and how all that influences different aspects
of American Indian tribes.
So I'm going to go ahead and get going with my presentation
today.
Hopefully, you guys can all see this.
Correct?
It's Food Influence on Development.
Yeah?
OK.
Sounds good.
And of course, the slide doesn't go.

OK.
So just very briefly.
I'm not quite sure if you guys have been over this in class,
but we need to talk a little bit about American Indian history
just because that has a huge impact on where
food sovereignty stands today.
So from the early 1400s, you have the doctrine of discovery.
And then from the 1600s, you're going
to be having the treaty-making era, which
means that a lot of the government's
going to be starting making treaties
with a lot of the American Indians
here in the United States.
And when I'm-- today, I'm going to be mostly discussing
American Indians within the United States,
as that's my specialty, and not other Indigenous communities.
Which are also important, I just--
I'm not well-versed in other Indigenous communities
outside the United States.
So the era that we're going to really be looking at right
now is going to be between--
starting in the 1800s, mostly the
1830s So the 1850s, which is going
to be the Indian Removal Act.
And this is going to be--
or the Indian Removal area.
The Indian Removal Act was such an influential part
of why tribes are doing this [? in ?] sovereignty--
I'm sorry. [? A ?] [? tribal ?] [? sovereignty ?] period right
now.
In the 1850s through the 1880s, you have the reservation era.
And then from the 1880s to the 1930s,
again, you have some of the allotment and assimilation.
Now, this area from 1830s to the 1930s, so almost 100 years,
are the areas that we're going to be looking a little bit more
into today.
And then in the 1930s and 1940s, you
have the Indian Reorganization era.
And then from 1940s to the 1960s,
that's when you have termination,
boarding schools, adoption, relocation.
And if you're familiar with any of the current Indian
in the news that the adoption, especially the Indian
[INAUDIBLE]--
the Indian Child and Welfare Act, that's really heavily
influenced right now.
So if you're really interested in Indian policy,
that's something that you should probably
look into right now because that's being in the courts
right now and people are getting very heated
and getting frustrated with [INAUDIBLE]..
So starting in the 1970s to present for today,
Indian self-determination policy era,
and this is when we're still--
a lot of tribes are still trying to become sovereign,
essentially, and find ways that they can collaborate
with the government, but also find ways
where they can be sovereign in areas such as food
that they no longer want the government influence.
So one thing that I probably barely
learned in graduate school was that
during the American Indian Wars, the American Indians
were winning a lot of wars.
Now when I think about this, and especially maybe I have such
a preconceived notion from my education,
I was always told that the Indians are bad
and the colonizers have come in and they weren't--
the Indians were not adapted to Christianity,
or they wouldn't help the colonizers,
and so they would start fighting.
And I was always told that the Indians would then
attack all these colonizers who were just
trying to live peacefully.
Well, that wasn't really the case.
A lot of the times, yes, they did attack, but it was both.
And during this time, there were many battles.
And as you can see on the right-hand side,
you can see all the battles listed
right there that happened West of the Mississippi.
And that was a significant amount.
And of that, more than half American Indians
were actually winning a lot of these wars.
However, the government saw that they
weren't able to continue fighting
and so they switched up their tactics.
They switched up their tactics to more of a--
not so much combat, but as trying
to tell these tribes that they're
going to be helping them.
And in a way, one of the first policies ever for that
was the American Indian Removal Act in the 1830s.
So actually, I'm not quite sure if you guys know,
but Cherokees are not originally from Oklahoma.
They're actually from Florida, and there's
many tribes that are like this, that they're
from another part of the United States.
And Florida and Georgia, and a lot
of these areas have such pristine land for growing
cotton and other produce, and had really great
farmland that they then forced those Indians, primarily
the Cherokees and the Chickasaw and the Choctaw,
over to the Midwest to an area where they never even--
they don't know it.
And it was mostly because they took it for themselves.
The colonizers took it for all the farming that they had.
So around 100,000 people were relocated
and there's around 4,500 documented deaths
just from the walk alone.
In addition to this, the government then realized
that while we can't fight them and they're just
going to keep banding together, what we can do
is beat them at the source of where they get their strength.
So here is a picture in the 1870s where these
are all skulls of buffalo--
of bison.
And if you know anything about a lot of these tribes
and about Native American history
is that the bison is such a crucial and essentially
a spirit animal to many different tribes.
There are over 150 uses that you can use from the Buffalo,
including medicine.

They use them as coats.
They used the-- actually, they used the Buffalo bladder
as water containers.
And there's just so many uses for Buffalo.
However, what the government did was kill a bunch of Buffalo
and try to remove the hides and burn them, essentially,
so that the American Indian tribes would have to starve.

And then following that, it was in the 1880s
that the government then realized
that we can't fight them and we're
trying to burn their food, but they're finding other sources.
What can we do?
So the one thing that they did was
starting to take their land, and then they reallotted them.
So this became known as the Dawes Act, which
was made primarily for American Indians to obtain their land,
but then only give them a fraction of it.
So as you can see, this is one of the signs or flyers where
they just wanted the land because they wanted
agriculture, dry farming, irrigated,
grazing in all these areas, but then they
gave the Native Americans such small portions of the land.
So this was a law that really devastated
the American Indian communities.
And so when they asked, well, what
are we going to do about our food,
because our food systems are in these lands, and now
you're taking the lands away.
What can we do?
And so one thing that the government decided to do
relates back to controlling food.
And so starting in the 1800s, they started controlling food
with the United States Food Distribution program.
So the image on your left is a picture of a rations ticket
that a lot of Indian tribes used where you would then
go and pick up some rations.
And then the picture on your right
is currently what is being used today
because the Commodity Foods Program is still
a program that's in--
that is still enacted today.
So the Commodity Foods Program, while it's
supposed to be people, it's feeding people
that were accustomed to the food that they were given.
So like flour, and wheat, and among the processed foods
that American Indians were not used to.
So for today's example, a lot of the foods
that are given to American Indian tribes, especially
elderly that qualify for commodity foods
are given food that are not--
they're not fresh.
They're not fresh vegetables.
They're not fresh food.
They're given canned foods that has a long shelf-stable life.
So this was a program that is still highly contested today.
But why is food so important for Native Americans?
First, ceremony.
Food is central to many, many, many tribes
and their ceremonies.
It's a rite of passage.
Here, these are two images of--
the top one is an image of the Navajo Nation
and this is both rites of passages for girls.
And even though these are two--
this picture is from two different tribes,
they both use corn, because corn is such a significant plant.
And it's not just a vegetable or a grain.
It is a-- it's medicine for us.
So essentially, the Navajo up on the top
is a girl around the age of-- probably around between 11
and 13, and the same for the girl at the bottom
who was White Mountain and Apache.
And the top one is that the girl has
to make about a three foot--
a cake that's probably around three feet and about two feet
deep.
It's a huge cake that is made out of corn.
And she has to make that for the community.
So as you can see, all the women around her are helping
and she gets the corn, she processes it herself,
and she grinds it.

Is my thing still sharing?

PROFESSOR: [? No, ?] we lost you for a moment.
VALERISA GADDY: OK.
PROFESSOR: You were explaining how
these are both rites of passage for different types,
[? but ?] both for girls.
VALERISA GADDY: Right.
Am I still sharing?
PROFESSOR: Yep.
You're good.
VALERISA GADDY: OK.

So as you can see, the girl, essentially she
grows the corn with the women.
And after she grows it, she then grinds it
and she makes this huge cake that's
supposed to feed her community.
And then on the image on the bottom
is of the White Mountain Apache and her tribe.
And she gets doused in corn and she
has to stay that way for about 24 hours,
and she dances nonstop for 24 hours.
And she's sitting there dancing and making sure
that the dancers that represent all
these different other deities within their tribe bless her.
So these are both pretty extreme task that you set on a 11
to 13-year-old girl.
So another area-- sorry.

It's a medicine and food has always
been the first line of defense in medicine for tribes.
And again, like I mentioned the Buffalo,
the Buffalo horn has been used, and grinded up, and used
as almost like acetaminophen.
There's many teas and many different types of herbs,
and that's always our first line of defense.
I mean, even today, there's medicine and herbs
that I use before reaching for other medicines
just because I feel like they're more--
they're not as harsh as some of the over-the-counter
medications.
And it's stuff that I have grown up with
and my family has grown up with that they have lived by.
So those are the food as medicine.
Culture.
Now for the Nez Perce, they call themselves the Salmon People.
They are very in tune with the salmon.
And it's not just a food for them to eat
and it's not just a hobby like a many people that are non-native
think of fishing as a hobby.
No, this is their culture.
They believe that they are actually the Salmon People
and that these are their brothers and their sisters,
and they're not fishing for hobby.
They're not fishing to get the biggest catch.
And they're not fishing for quantity.
They're fishing because the salmon are giving
them sustenance to live by.
And so they have very specific rituals and ceremonies
within the Nez Perce community and that their food
is-- their food, the salmon, is such a huge part of them
that they consider themselves the Salmon People.
And then for some of the tribes here,
and the Navajo that I'm a part of, corn and beans are, again,
are such huge symbols of everything,
as you saw earlier in the passage and the rites,
the girls that were doused in corn and making
humongous corn cake.
So food is just such a significant part of culture.
However, when you think back and you realize
that a lot of the historical events
that I talked about before, place
has changed a lot of these cultures,
and it really makes you start to think that well,
what's going to continue to happen
if we don't continue farming, and if we
don't continue living with fresh produce and everything
like that?
What else is going to change?
So an example of this is that the Laguna Acoma, which
has a specific day called Grab Day,
and it's a huge festival where you eat,
and you bring out your foods, and everyone--
there's some dancing involved and you
get some of their pottery.
And it's just a festive day.
So however, before precolonization--
or precolonization time, they would throw out fresh foods.
And that was supposed to be the end of--
it's supposed to be--
this happens, Grab Day happens right at the end of harvesting.
So you're supposed to have harvested all your fruits
and vegetables, whatever you grew, and you're
supposed to share them with your community.
And so that's essentially where this day camp came from.
However, with the introduction of colonization,
they have changed their Grab Day from--
they no longer throw out fresh fruits and vegetables,
but they now throw out processed foods like sodas, and candies,
and things that are no longer good for a person.
Well, ever since the introduction of colonization,
they said that their fresh produce has actually gone down
significantly and the increase of processed food
has increased.
And so they don't see it stopping any time soon and now
this tradition, which is supposed to be celebrating
[? and ?] the end of harvesting has
turned into a day of eating junk food, and candies, and stuff
like that.
So that kind of changes the reason
why they're doing it now.
So because of that, a lot of the people, especially elders,
are wanting to stop this beautiful tradition because you
don't grow processed food.
So that's an area where we may lose that part of that,
[? does ?] it this specific culture
and this specific ceremony, and we
may lose that because no one is farming anymore.
Another big influence on food and the way
that a lot of the historical events
have changed tribes has been San Carlos Apache here in Arizona,
actually, were forced and relocated
to what they called Hell's 40 acres.
And this is an area in Arizona where it's really--
it gets so hot.
There's really no bodies of water in the area.
And it was 40 acres where the San Carlos
Apache were relocated to.
And one of the things that they had to do to survive
was that they had to survive off of woodrats.
And right away, you're like, ew.
Why are they eating woodrats?
Well other than being high in blood
and having some type of water in them, apparently they're also
really, really tender when you eat them,
and compared to other critters that
run around like the snakes, which I heard
was really tough to eat.
And I heard that the woodrats, while they
are kind of on the smaller side, they
are a little bit chunkier than a lot of the other field mice
that run around.
So within the vermin family, this
was actually one of the slower animals to catch.
However, today, while the San Carlos Apache has access
to grocery stores and everything,
they have adopted going hunting for woodrats,
which is what this lady is doing right
now in the image on your right.
And that has become a delicacy.
So you could see that not only has
the introduction of colonization changed
different types of ceremonies and cultures,
but they also develop new ones because before, the San Carlos
Apache wouldn't have ate that.
However, they now eat that as a delicacy
because that's what they were able to survive off of.
So where do we stand today?
Today, we're kind of in the same area.
While my program, IRRIGaTE, does highlight
all the many Native producers, and farmers, and ranchers
that the United States currently has,
it's also not enough to sustain the tribal communities.
And so these areas are actually really high in food deserts.
And while many people are still trying to farm,
we're still seeing the effects from a lot
of this colonization.
We have tons of processed food in our grocery store.

That's always one thing that I do,
is when I travel I go look in other people's grocery stores,
or if I'm grabbing something, and I
see lots of fresh fruit and produce,
and things that are like that.
But when you go to a grocery store on the reservation
or near a reservation, many of the times,
you just find stuff like this.
And this is all food that has been in the Commodity
Food-based program.
So that's just something to think about, that we've
changed our way of thinking.
We used to have fresh fruits and vegetables,
and be able to catch our own protein, and through bison,
and fish, and everything.
But now we don't do that anymore because a lot of our land--
the majority of the land was taken away.
So when working with communities, I always ask--
to have people ask themselves, would you
want to live here, work here, or play here?

How can you go in?
Because I feel like a lot of times
when working with communities, a lot of people
while they have the best intentions, try to go in
and try to solve a problem, meaning that they go in
and think that they can fix something
with something very easy.
Well, if you lived in that community,
you had to put yourself in those people's shoes.
Would you want to essentially do what
you're telling them to do and try to make sure
that if you were to do that, you would want to live,
work, or play here?
