PROFESSOR: There are situations that,
for one reason or another, can't be directly electrified,
and for those we'll need a clean fuel.
We'll also take a look at potential ways
to remove carbon dioxide that is already in the atmosphere.
The one fuel that's clearly making a comeback
is hydrogen. Originally touted to power fuel cell cars,
it's been supplanted by battery electric cars, which
are less expensive and use electricity more efficiently.
But hydrogen is now a leading candidate
for the other applications.
How the hydrogen is made is critical.
To address climate change, we'll need
to use renewable electricity from wind and solar
to split water in a process known as electrolysis to obtain
what's called green hydrogen. So what
are good places to use this green hydrogen?
There are many industrial processes that use hydrogen
directly and there are some industrial processes
where hydrogen can be burned instead of natural gas
to produce heat.
Hydrogen can also be stored in salt caverns
and potentially burn instead of natural gas
in combustion turbines to produce electricity
whenever needed.
Such turbines are under development.
Hydrogen could also be used to power trains and large trucks.
Although some see it being used in buildings,
I believe it makes more sense to completely indirectly electrify
buildings.
This chart shows the relative cost per ton of carbon
dioxide removal for different uses of hydrogen.
It's a projection out to mid-century
but it gives an idea of the relative costs.
Heavy transportation and various industry uses
will be the most cost effective.
This shows a new fossil-free steel production
plant in Sweden.
It uses green hydrogen to produce
raw iron ore, which then goes to an electric arc furnace.
This graphic shows one study projecting
that industry could potentially transition
to roughly a 50/50 split between electricity and hydrogen
for process heating needs.
Many studies now indicate that driving our carbon dioxide
emissions to zero won't be enough.
To prevent the worst consequences of climate change,
we may have to also remove CO2 from the air.
This graph shows different potential paths
for emissions reductions.
Note that to have a high probability of keeping
the total temperature rise under two degrees Celsius,
or 3.5 degrees Fahrenheit by 2100,
we need to drop below the zero line
sometime after mid-century.
That means we need to take more CO2 out of the atmosphere
than we're adding.
And that CO2 will need to be sequestered in the Earth.
Many of the approaches being considered are biological.
Restoring forests and growing new forests
are key ways to remove atmospheric carbon dioxide,
although we first have to tackle the serious problem
of deforestation.
New farming techniques can help keep carbon in the soil
and carbon-rich biochar can be used as a fertilizer.
Bioenergy with carbon capture and storage,
often called BECCS for short, takes advantage of the fact
that growing plants remove CO2 from the air.
But instead of just burning the biomass or biofuel derived
from it and putting that CO2 back in the air,
it's first removed and geologically
sequestered in the ground.
Many of these biological solutions
are controversial because they cost money,
they impact land use, and you have
to account for the carbon that would have
been removed by normal growth.
Even growing new forests has been in the spotlight
lately because a recent journal article received a lot of press
when it significantly overestimated
the potential benefit of tree planting.
Another idea is to accelerate the normal process
of rock weathering that absorbs CO2 from the air.
It means mining and crushing basaltic rock
and spreading it out over the land as a fertilizer
or over the ocean.
Finally, direct air captures the brute force method
of sucking air through equipment that absorbs the CO2, which
can then be deeply buried.
But carbon dioxide represents only four hundredths
of 1% of the air.
So you need to move a lot of air and have a lot of surface area.
This means lots of fan power and expensive equipment.
This graphic is an attempt to roughly show
how these different methods stack up
in terms of cost on the vertical axis,
and the potential amount of carbon sequestering
on the horizontal axis.
But the most important thing to remember about carbon dioxide
removal from the atmosphere is that it in no way
should distract us from the number one
goal of stopping carbon emissions to begin
with by getting off fossil fuels as fast as we can.
We have all the technologies we need to replace fossil fuels.
