
PROFESSOR: The development of climate risk information
for cities is an interactive and iterative process
between scientists and stakeholders.
To improve policy efforts for enhancing resilience
in urban settings, city managers need
to identify key stakeholders, engage scientists
in the process of risk analysis, work with specialized experts
in the cogeneration of climate information,
and maintain lines of communication
among all these various groups.
Local climate risk information is an essential component
of a city's comprehensive framework
for responding to the risks of climate variability and climate
change and to its implementation of adaptation strategies.
This underlying climate science is
critical for identifying vulnerabilities
and for planning a response for urban resilience
that integrates and is predicated
on the ongoing development of scientific knowledge.
Scientific knowledge is never just for one time only.
We're constantly learning.
And especially because climate is constantly changing now,
we have to have an ongoing process of knowledge
development and communication interactions
between scientists and stakeholders.
Taking into consideration the many components
of the urban climate system lead to the generation of usable--
the key term is usable--
information that aids in the understanding of climate risk
and in the planning for resilient cities.
It is this collaboration between the climate science providers
and the decision makers that generates
this useful and practical climate science
information that is needed to address the challenges that
arise when climate change adaptation initiatives are
implemented in urban areas.
Using a network of weather-monitoring stations
and both satellite- and ground-based remote sensing
instruments, urban meteorology networks
track multiple climate variables--
for example, temperature, precipitation humidity,
wind speed at high spatial and temporal resolutions--
and can be used for a variety of applications, including
urban weather research and real-time tracking
of extreme weather events, which are changing in intensity
and frequency and duration.
Improvements and expansion of these systems
can further the understanding of the urban climate challenges
and improve high-resolution climate data
availability in cities.
Data from these meteorological networks in urban areas
can also be used to evaluate the effectiveness of adaptation
strategies as we progress into the future.
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration known to,
I think, everyone around the world as NASA
has missions and instruments that
play a critical role in the monitoring of urban climate
and is especially good at monitoring the urban heat
island effect.
Satellite remote-sensing instruments such
as the moderate resolution imaging spectroradiometer--
that's known as MODIS--
and the Landsat satellite are important tools
used by researchers and cities around the globe
to investigate how urbanization influences surface and air heat
fluxes and how the urban heat islands evolve with time.
Images captured from the instruments
help to identify the magnitude and spatial
scale of microclimates as well as
to infer land surface types and changes that also
impact the urban environment.
The New York Panel on Climate Change, known as the NPCC,
has proposed an indicators and monitoring
system for New York City.
This system creates a mechanism for putting present risks
in the context of past, present, and future.
We need to learn from the past, understand the present,
and be ready for the future.
The monitoring system also helps to inform decision makers
of approaching potential system-level thresholds
and the need to alter adaptation pathways.
And it helps to alert stakeholders
to emerging climate extremes and related risk information.