
JANELLE KNOX-HAYES: Hello my name is Janelle Knox-Hayes.
I'm an Associate Professor in the Department of Urban Studies
and Planning.
And the title of this talk is the Equitable Resilience
Framework.
The equitable resilience framework
is built on several principles and strategies.
Within the first pillar of the equitable resilience framework,
the capabilities approach issues simplistic economic measures
like income in favor a holistic understanding
of human flourishing.
The development of human capabilities,
for example, life, health, mobility, education, et cetera,
are prioritized over economic growth.
Local communities determine which
capabilities to prioritize and policy
is designed with regard to local infrastructure, culture,
and values.
The second pillar of the equitable resilience framework
is a modified trade-off analysis.
This integrates strategies for problem formulation,
stakeholder and power analysis, consensus building,
and multicriteria analysis to arrive
at transparent, equitable, and effective solutions.
And finally, the third pillar, knowledge convergence,
increases knowledge among local communities,
governments, and scientists using transmedia communication,
data visualizations, artistic interventions, and community
science and data integration.
Public communication about climate science
uses multiple channels and diverse sources of knowledge.
For example, including Indigenous
ecological knowledge, recognizing the value
of different knowledge systems.
So the first pillar is about values and principles.
When policies and projects lack goals, frameworks,
and assessment methods oriented towards equity,
they may promote injustices.
Within the framework, we center justice and resilience planning
by integrating the human capabilities approach
and developing a strategy to put it into practice.
This provides an actionable strategy
for communities most in need of immediate climate adaptation
to have their knowledge, concerns,
and self-defined values and desired capabilities brought
to the center of their climate resilience.
There are several key concepts in pillar one.
First, the capabilities approach replaces maladaptive evaluative
frameworks such as utilitarianism and resourcism.
Second, the capabilities approach
focuses on the real opportunities individuals
have to lead lives they value.
And third, applying the capabilities approach
requires procedures for developing indicators
to measure success.
Pillar two utilizes a just trade-off analysis
for implementation and assessment of the ERF.
Cost benefit analysis, the current tool
used by governments to assess climate policy,
aggregates the effects on different actors
and reduces them to simple monetary terms,
net benefit values or benefit to cost ratio.
We propose to replace cost benefit analysis
with a modified trade-off analysis, which
allows for multidimensional analysis of key decision
outcomes across multiple groups.
It increases transparency and prioritizes human capabilities
above profits and asset protection.
Several key concepts attenuate pillar two.
The first is that trade-off analysis allows for negotiation
and consensus building across stakeholders
in competing interests.
Second, trade-off analysis reveals imbalances
in power among stakeholders, allowing
marginalized stakeholders to regain power.
And finally, trade-off analysis allows
formal integration and assessment
of community-identified capabilities.
The third pillar focuses on knowledge convergence,
thinking about both communication and engagement.
The failure to facilitate communication two
and from communities who are disproportionately burdened
by climate risks, or to incorporate other knowledge
forms such as traditional ecological knowledge
can lead to solutions that perpetuate
ineffective and unjust outcomes.
We propose to develop climate communication tools
that expand knowledge formation, address
the true temporal and spatial scale of climate change,
and then enable dialogue between communities, scientists,
and policymakers.
Doing so will increase understanding
of risks in vulnerable communities,
spur faster action, and provide evidence-based measurement
of outcomes, several key concepts
involved in pillar three.
The first is that communicating climate science and impact
should integrate art, science, and civic engagement for better
impact.
The second is that incorporating community-based data
into climate science and policy leads not only
to more equitable, but more effective climate science.
And finally, the third, enhancing consultation
in the planning, design, and policy process
through community recognition and through community framework
and definition allows for better planning
and better, more equitable, more accepted outcomes.