JANELLE KNOX-HAYES: Hello, I'm Janelle Knox-Hayes.
I'm an associate professor in the Department of Urban Studies
and Planning at MIT.
And the topic of this presentation
is Justice and Co-design for Wind Energy Infrastructure.
The Cape Wind project is an excellent example, a case
study, of how the co-design process could
be very useful for the generation
of a sociotechnical energy system.
Cape Wind is a failed wind project
that was proposed off of the shore of Nantucket.
It would have been 4.8 miles off the coast
of Mashpee, Massachusetts.
It would have produced 5,500 gigawatt hours
and supplied 75% of the electric power of Cape Cod, Nantucket,
and Martha's Vineyard.
State and federal authorities tried
to override local opposition, which
was apparent from the beginning of the project,
by issuing permits.
However, due to the formation of a powerful coalition
and diverse coalition of a range of stakeholder groups,
including wealthy landowners, tribal communities, business
interests, even environmental organizations,
the project was ultimately halted by lawsuits in 2017.
And this was after nearly a decade of development
and a tremendous amount of resources put already
into the project.
So the Cape Wind example is a good way
in which to consider how could a co-design process,
and how could other technologies optimized with offshore wind
have been beneficial.
One alternative is to consider the impact of deep wind.
There are new trials examining how deep wind can be created.
This is the extension of offshore wind
turbines up to 50 kilometers offshore,
about 30 miles offshore.
And the turbines aren't tethered to the ground,
but rather are floating.
The impact is that they can harness much stronger, faster
winds offshore.
They also have minimal site concerns and less impact
on fisheries and birds, which tend to be closer to shore.
The stronger winds are a considerable advantage.
But this means that they require higher transmission
infrastructure.
And so storage can be a way in which
to stabilize transmission at average, instead
of peak delivery.
A range of existing systems thinking beyond just batteries
could be used to harness this storage,
including gravity storage, levitation,
and buoyancy storage, hydropneumonic systems.
So even with the inclusion of storage
to increase efficiency and allow for transmission at average,
instead of peak delivery, which would limit
the amount of infrastructure needed onshore,
it's critical with this kind of system design
to also think about community input
and the pursuit of co-benefits.
This could be technology redesign,
thinking about the existing systems,
even with something as innovative as deep wind,
to think about other impacts that would
be beneficial for communities.
Reducing the transmission rate through the creation
of different storage options, assessing other criteria
impacts on fisheries or even potential impacts on shipping,
and then thinking about, critically, education and job
training for the community, such that the systems could still
be maintained and beneficial to local communities
beyond the energy, the clean energy that they generate.
So this is a nice diagram that shows
the road map for sociotechnical economic and political
co-design.
And what you see on the left hand
is the critical stakeholders, both social and ecological,
that have to be brought first into dialogue
before a system is planned.
Reading from left to right, you see the sort
of critical pillars that need to be
addressed in the creation of a STEP co-designed energy system.
Inclusion and equity on one hand,
thinking about how this is built through knowledge convergence
and dialogue.
So it's critical to think about the integration of stakeholders
across the two main pillars, inclusion and equity,
and viability and impact.
And what this diagram does is walk through both opportunities
and challenges across the three levels of STEP co-design,
thinking about system components and how
to build those between stakeholders, developers,
and community groups, thinking about the systems integration,
and again, how to think about the ways in which
different energy systems can be integrated,
but the ways in which also, the lessons learned from pilot
projects in different communities
can be scaled up to think about more holistic energy systems
across regions.
And then finally, the systems roll out,
how to deploy and develop these systems, also thinking
about their market viability, market impact, and the way
in which they can support and benefit from specific policies.
So in conclusion, energy systems have to be community driven.
And they have to focus on long term sustainability.
Sustainability is ultimately systematic.
It's not just about the quantity of energy produced
or other efficiency targets.
It's ultimately about the way in which value is generated,
how these systems are generated, and how they're integrated
and embedded with communities.
So that they operate and become synced
over greater time scales.
The spatial and temporal connections
to a host of indicators that are both social
and environmental markers of well-being must be considered.
How do these systems impact social and economic phenomenon,
like livelihoods, job and workforce training,
and education opportunities in the community?
And then how do they sync with the other natural systems
in which they will be ultimately be in train?
How are they serving water quality, fisheries, bird
species?
And can they produce other co-benefits in addition
to the generation of energy?
And then finally, it's critical to stress the long-term time
horizon.
Benefits have to be local and piloted with communities.
But there's also a need to scale them up,
to think about regional impacts, national impacts,
and ultimately, global impacts.
Thank you very much for your attention.