JANELLE KNOX-HAYES: Hello.
I'm Janelle Knox-Hayes.
I'm an associate professor in the Department of Urban Studies
and Planning at MIT.
And in this video, we'll discuss the climate action plan.
Climate action plans are strategic framework documents
used to guide cities in addressing impacts of climate
change in their communities.
CAPs are a crucial tool for tracking and meeting
global climate goals.
They can be applied at a wide range
of different institutional levels,
from city governments to universities
to federal programs.
A climate action plan helps cities mitigate and adapt
to rapid environmental changes, many of which
are regionally and locally specific.
The plan can also help businesses and the public gain
awareness of how their activities and actions are
connected to collaborative efforts to mitigate and adapt
to climate change.
Climate action plans typically include targets
for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and detailed steps
for meeting and tracking those targets.
Plans also often include elements
such as resilience strategies and clean energy targets
and generally focus on implementing actions
that will achieve emissions reductions in the most
cost-effective way possible.
Federal governments and local municipalities
develop and utilize climate action plans
as roadmaps for informed decisions,
to better understand where and how to achieve the most
impactful emissions reductions that are
in alignment with other resilience and equity goals.
In developing climate action plans,
there are many different approaches
taken by different cities, as CAPs
must be tailored to a city's specific needs
and circumstances.
Critical approaches, however, typically include
a data analysis process to collect information
on existing conditions and build an evidence base
to inform policy, dedicated stakeholder engagement
in developing the CAP, and identifying priority
directions for action, and scenario planning
to support the selection of appropriate mitigation
and adaptation strategies to integrate into the CAP.
As the C40 Cities states, climate action plans ultimately
help cities to deliver integrated and inclusive plans
that address the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions,
adapt to the impacts of climate change,
and deliver wider social and economic benefits.
