JANELLE KNOX-HAYES: Hello.
I'm Janelle Knox-Hayes.
I'm an associate professor in the Department of Urban Studies
and Planning.
And in this video, we'll discuss the components
of a climate action plan.
Climate action plans will vary for different cities.
However, many include similar key components, including
a vision statement set in short, medium, and long-term time
scales, and grouped into strategic areas, sectors,
or pillars; an introduction to describe
how the CAP was developed, highlighting
public participation processes; a description
of how the CAP links with existing plans in the city, as
well as additional socioeconomic and environmental goals;
a description of how the CAP links
to other national and regional goals,
regulations, plans, and processes;
a technical and scientific summary
with baseline assessments, including
but not limited to a greenhouse gas
emissions inventory, vulnerability and risk
assessment, and health implication study, as well as
an assessment of local renewable energy potential;
an overview of existing mitigation
and adaptation-related initiatives;
a summary of how actions were prioritized
and how decisions were made, including criteria used
for decision-making; a set of actions organized
by strategic areas with corresponding goals, selected
in accordance with criteria and ensuring coordinated action;
a strategy for outreach, education, communication,
and dissemination; a framework for reporting
results and ensuring accountability for the CAP;
a monitoring and evaluation framework,
along with key performance indicators
for measuring progress and updating action;
a glossary to explain technical terms;
and simple graphics to illustrate key findings, goals,
and strategies.
A climate action plan will also describe the city's governance
structure and describe the power dynamics and actors involved
in decision-making.
Here, it's critical to highlight actors and stakeholders who
are missing from the planning process,
just as you've explored in the development of your power
actors map and spider diagram for your case study research.
The CAP should aim to foster transparency
about a city's approach to climate change
mitigation and adaptation and integrate
an inclusive and equitable participation
process to embed multiple stakeholders
into its development.
A climate action plan is typically a multisector effort
in a city, and thus requires a clearly defined approach
to how stakeholder knowledge and participation will
be integrated into the action plan's development.