
MARIA PIZZORNI: Good morning and good afternoon.
My name is Maria Pizzorni and I am a PhD student
at the UNESCO Chair on Urban Resilience at the University
of Southern Denmark.
My research is on how floods and droughts affect cities,
and in the last few years I have been
working on analyzing the urban content of the nationally
determined contributions.
Today I will briefly tell you what NDCs are,
why cities are so important in dealing
with climate change, why we look for the urban content
in the NDCs, and what we have done
over the years, the methodology we developed,
and finally I will tell you about the last report
we brought in 2022.
The nationally determined contributions or so-called NDCs
are the policies at the heart of the Paris Agreement.
Each party writes in the NDCs their efforts and the measures
to reduce national emissions and adapt to climate change
with a specific target year.
Moreover, NDCs are legally binding
and must be updated every five years.
Today, 50% of the population lives in cities,
occupy 3% of land, and consume 80% of the world's energy.
In 2015, 90% of the world population
will live in cities, especially in countries in the Global
South.
Among other things, cities are currently
the most vulnerable places to climate change
due to their high density and overloaded infrastructures.
Since the battle against climate change
will be won or lost in cities, to strengthen a solid bridge
between national climate policies
and urban action is necessary.
This work aims to raise advocacy and support countries
in developing NDCs by looking more at urban challenges
and responses.
Four reports were produced between 2016 and 2022,
and the work will continue in the coming years.
The first report was on the first stock of the NDCs.
The second report was a preliminary analysis
of the urban content of the second stock of the NDCs,
and the third and the fourth reports
were more in-depth analysis of the second stock of the NDCs,
one at the global level with normative recommendations,
and the other one on the African region with more
operational recommendations.
Looking at the methodology used to conduct the analysis,
more than 200 indicators were used to analyze the NDCs.
Some were external indicators, for example, the Human
Development Index and the percentage of urban population,
but the majority of the indicators
were detected by reading the NDCs.
Indicators were grouped in 14 groups,
a first block of introduction and context indicator,
then national indicators, including
challenges and responses, then urban indicators,
including challenges and responses again,
then other climate related national documents
and cross-cutting issues.
The first aim of the work was to understand the urban content
of the NDCs assessing if they had high, moderate,
or low urban content.
The second aim was to understand alignments and misalignments
between urban and national priorities, challenges,
and measures.
National and urban challenges and responses
were analyzed by sector and hazards
both for mitigation and adaptation.
For example, mitigation sectors include energy, transport,
and built environment, and adaptation sectors
include agricultural and food ecosystem, biodiversity,
and human health.
Then cross-cutting issues include very different topics,
such as loss and damages, multilevel governance,
and gender.
2022, in collaboration between UN Habitat
and UNESCO chair on urban resilience at the University
of Southern Denmark, 193 NDCs submitted to UNFCCC
before 19th of June 2022 were analyzed and in this report
the recommendations are more normative.
The report was also presented at COP27 in Sharm Sheikh in 2022.
Looking at the key findings of the report, 64% of the NDCs
have urban content, either strong or moderate,
and they identify more urban responses than challenges.
Only 24% of the NDCs have strong urban content,
meaning that they identify urban as a sector or as a priority.
In this map, you can see the distribution of the NDCs
with strong, moderate, or low urban content within the world.
You can see that there are a few countries
with strong urban content.
Looking at the mitigation and adaptation of urban content,
most of the NDCs focus on both adaptation and mitigation.
In this map, you can see in blue countries
with strong urban contents and red NDCs
with moderate urban content.
The brighter colors represents the mention of both adaptation
and mitigation.
Looking at the urban mitigation challenges and responses
by sector, energy, transport and mobility,
and waste are the most mentioned sectors.
In green you have the urban mitigation challenges
and in purple the urban mitigation responses.
For more information, you also have a few quotes
in orange for each analysis.
Looking at the urban adaptation challenges and responses
by sector, water and infrastructure
are the most mentioned sectors.
Looking at the urban adaptation by hazard,
floods is the most mentioned.
And for more information, you can read the quote
from Albania, and this is briefly
resuming the recommendations.
There is a need of more urban content in the NDCs.
A need of update existing guidelines
for supporting the inclusion of urban content in the NDCs.
To extend the analysis to other key national policies
like national adaptation plans and also to make
deeper analysis for each party.
Moreover, another recommendation is
to support the integration of mitigation and adaptation
for urban climate action, to increase
the explicit identification of urban climate challenges,
to have more concrete identification
of urban adaptation responses, and to better identify hazards
at the urban level.
Concluding, there is a need of more gender consideration
at the urban level.
Urban level mitigation and adaptation challenges
and responses by sector should be expanded in alignment
with the national level.
Request for technology, finance, and capacity building
should have greater definition at the urban level,
and more in-depth analysis and research
should be undertaken in relation to urban content
and cross-cutting issues.

Here you have some of the main external source
used for the analysis of the nationally
determined contributions.
And concluding, we are planning to proceed
in many different directions with this work expanding
possible outcomes.
For example, we are now planning to expand the analysis
to the national adaptation plans and to the low emission
development strategies.
Moreover, we are going to go deeper
with the country analysis.
I hope you enjoyed the presentation,
and please don't hesitate in contacting me
for more information.
Thank you so much.
