PROFESSOR: Hello, viewers.
In these episodes, I'm going to talk
about the connection between urban morphology, morphology,
and climate resilience in African cities,
with Kano City as an example.
Now, I must say that African cities at the moment
need urban science--
a kind of transdisciplinary knowledge system--
and not necessarily rigid, structured, and imported
urban planning principles and systems that hardly recognizes
an African city's urban look at knowledge and practice system.
In the past, this system--
the Africa morphology-- facilitated
emergence of urban forms through institutions
built on social, ecological, and spatial systems.
Kano is one of African cities that has for many years
and until very recently lost their resilient
[? urban forms ?] and systems built
based on its urban history, institutions, ecology, economy,
and security needs.
We need to ask ourselves, what are these [? speeches, ?]
[? forms, ?] services, and contributions that Kano's urban
morphology produced, or how it impacted on climate services
that it offers in the past?
We also need to talk on or explore
how and why this system weakens and collapses,
and perhaps what could be done to try to resuscitate
this priceless heritage system and how they can be utilized
to advance and promote resilience
and nature-based solutions to urban climate-related crisis.

Indeed, it is lamentable that Kano has already
lost its vital climate supporting
urban morphology [? pictures ?] that were
quite enduring and invaluable.
It is still important to drawing insights-- deeper insights--
into understanding of how urban sustainability can erode easily
and how adaptation systems can collapse quickly.
In other words, adaptation at city level
is not about the hardware alone.
It is not about the engineering stuff or anything like that.
Instead, this is about institutions.
This is about rules and organic governance system that
is quite inclusive in nature.
In the case of Kano, its original and, for that matter,
I mean, traditional African urban morphology,
is all about an urban landscape that emerged organically
from a balanced human nature [? interactions. ?]
One can illustrate this as a process of building
a city with a nature and giving back to the nature and people.
Yes, it is also about protecting and supporting the nature.
It is like everything is [? cyclical. ?] For instance,
the architecture of the city was built
by using local mud and parts of trees and grasses
to construct buildings that are designed to fulfill
people's needs and aspirations.
It's like each building is socially
and spatially connected to the local environment.
The buildings are compact, and the urban form, equally,
was compact.
And because the buildings were made from mud,
the [INAUDIBLE] were able to absorb excess water
from the rains and release it slowly in the way
that it cools off the city.
This is quite interesting because the roofs--
the flat roofs-- also retain some moisture.
And the roads are kind of [? unpaved, ?]
and excess water also goes underground and stores it
for future use, especially in the dry and hot season.
So indeed, the holes from which the soil was dug out
to serve as building material also ended up
serving as city points that keep excess rain,
and that helps really in keeping a lot of water and flood
control and also supporting plants and animal life,
as well as also providing city cooling services.
The open spaces are found virtually
in every neighborhood.
Interestingly, most of the neighborhoods in Kano City
are named after some local trees.
In the past, urban agriculture was also a predominant feature
of Kano City's urban landscape.
And this is to the extent that more than 2/3 of the Kano
walled city, including, I think, in the 20th century was
used for urban farming.
The city's periphery provide [INAUDIBLE]----
it is to provide [INAUDIBLE] in exchange for organic household
waste that in a way is being used as manure to fertilize
the rural agricultural landscapes.
And the presence of wetlands, [INAUDIBLE] green areas,
around the city wall, and the local trees
that you find almost in every house
makes the city very attractive to birds, insects, reptiles,
and even other animals.
So collectively, this helps in making the city
to be resilient and vibrant, despite being
really a dryland city.
And this process carried on for many centuries.
Ironically, colonialism did not significantly
interfere with the traditional urban morphology.
The real threat came from the colonially-oriented urban
planners and urban administrators.
And the problem of the foreign knowledge system
is that it hardly recognizes the intrinsic values and the nature
integration, for that matter, I want to say,
as well as the historical and heritage dimensions
of African urban landscape.
So such systems do not really recognize the Indigenous
and the pro-nature traditional urban systems
and especially how they support urban climate systems.
So we cannot in any way ignore the demographic [INAUDIBLE]..
Definitely, cities in Africa are growing, as I
said in one of these episodes.
So we can also harness some opportunities.
The UN has already declared the [INAUDIBLE]
for ecosystem restoration.
Maybe African cities can try to do that.
