PROFESSOR: Hi, everyone.
Today, we will present some of the outcomes of the Urban
Design Climate Workshop initiative, developed by UCCRN following
the release of the second assessment report on climate
change and cities, as a tool to bring science
into practice to implement the five pathways for urban
transformation in cities: integrating mitigation and adaptation,
creating DRR and CCA, co- generate risk information,
identify and address the needs of disadvantaged populations,
establish and advance knowledge networks.
This is an overview of the past and ongoing UDCW
activity,
with different workshop typologies based on typical duration and profile
of participants.
I also want to recall here the four steps process presented
in a previous lecture, which constitutes
the general methodological framework adapted
to the specific city cases.
we confront with.
Let's start with the Durban 2019.
UDCW case,
organized with the support of Sean O'Donoghue, Director
of the UCCRN South African hub.
eThekwini municipality and GIZ Germany.
The workshop involved community representatives,
city officials, and technical city planning departments
to integrate specific climate-resilient design
solutions within the ongoing redevelopment
plan for the Isipingo district.
The LAP, the local area plan, which covers a large area
including a central business district, industrial areas,
including a very large automotive industry
and container depot, and residential areas.
The main identified climate change issues are extreme heat,
droughts, and flood.
Flood in particular is the result of a complex topography,
with the area located between high hills
and a low-lying flood plain, which aggravates
the impact of extremely heavy precipitation,
such as the tragic events of 2017 and 2022.
This is combined with social, economic, and environmental
challenges, which include the presence
of informal settlements, high criminality rate, a transit camp,
and a drug rehabilitation center in the area,
informal markets, including scrap
yards and informal mechanics, alongside the presence
of a major manufacturing hub, an estuary area with endangered
canals, and mangrove ecosystems.
All of these make Isipingo one of the most depressed
secondary towns in the Durban area.
The Isipingo LAP was subjected to an analysis of climate change
projections for the year 2050,
under a business-as-usual and a best-case scenario.
Findings showed that substantial warming
will be experienced at least in the Isipingo central business
district and the industrial zone.
Through a collaborative session with local stakeholders,
opportunities and challenges of the LAP have been discussed,
and the community priorities mapped.
These aspects became the starting point for co-design sessions
with representatives from city planning
department and river basin authority,
providing a portfolio of design solutions
and highlighting their potential socioeconomic environmental
co-benefits.
Green and blue infrastructure as well as climate-resilient design
solutions at the building scale were suggested for critical heat
spots in the central business district and the industrial zone.
Two key areas were identified for wetland rehabilitation
to attenuate flooding, the transit camp south of the city
and the container depot built
on top of a wetland, restoring the canal system
to revive the estuary ecosystem, alongside the development
of new recreation and ecotourism opportunities.
The main takeaway of the experience was the clear demand from technicians
of improving their knowledge of tools integrating modeling,
simulation and collaborative design.
It led to new workshops on remote sensing image processing
with the support of NASA in 2020,
and a second round of the Durban UDCW with the support
of Ground Truth for the CICLIA Transformative River Management
Program in January 2022.
Another interesting example of the UDCW methodology
and approach integration in local authorities' planning
policies is the case of my city, Napoli, in Italy.
Grounded on research conducted with the European-funded projects
carried out at University of Napoli Federico II,
a set of multi-scale planning and design support tools
to support climate action in the city has been developed.
The goal was to have a coherent reference
framework across the different scale of urban planning, from the
strategic level, with the sustainable climate and energy action
plan, being Napoli among the signatories of the Covenant of Mayors, to
city planning, and district design.
Locally downscaled climate projections
of extreme events and seasonal trends,
reference hazard/impact scenarios that
take into account urban microclimates,
simulation of climate adaptation potential of planned projects,
and guidelines for project revision and implementation,
have been integrated into official planning documents.
The UDCW supported in particular the redevelopment
project of a district located in the east suburb of the city.
Here, a series of collaborative mapping and co-design exercises,
including gamification activities,
were carried out with local communities
and technical departments of local authorities, helping
to identify key priorities bridging climate action
with socioeconomic and environmental goals.
The workshop outputs has been integrated into the urban design
guidelines for the district, with ad hoc modeling
of alternative solutions for building and open spaces
configuration.
This process included the revision of the municipal plan
for the area, coupling results of simulations
with community priorities to provide detailed indication
for the preparation of the tendering procedures,
thus closing the loop from the strategic planning
level to the actual implementation
of sustainable and climate-resilient solutions
in the city.
Also, in the case of Napoli, the collaboration
continues, again through partnership with the European Funded Projects,
to expand the capacity of developing climate
action towards emerging challenges,
such as the coastal impacts due to medicanes,
Mediterranean hurricanes and a measured pathway
for the full decarbonization of the building stock.