
SPEAKER: Hello, viewers.
In this episode, I want to explore some of the challenges,
as well of some of the opportunities
on hopes, which I believe will tell us
the future directions that Kano may take-- espouse addressing
climate challenge-- climate change challenges of concern.
Well, as researchers, we don't shy away
from reporting and exploring problems.
We are interested instead in understanding problems
and identifying solutions and opportunities for addressing
all these kind of challenges.
Elsewhere I mentioned some examples of outstanding climate
adaptation and resilience pitches
that Kano City had exhibited in the past.

I think at the moment, it is not encouraging at all
to say that such a wonderful urban resilience
system disappeared within a few decades
despite being there for centuries.
I think the story of Kano City tells us
that a well-intended and positive actions that
can support our resilience can collapse
within a short period of time.
And that is where the role of environmental governance
really comes to play.
I want to emphasize that collapse of institutions
by external and internal forces can cause this situation--
I think I raised the issue of colonialism
and post-colonialism knowledge-- post-colonial knowledge system.
I must add that both in the past and present, the city's
modern urban planning system has failed to integrate
climate adaptation strategies.
I do not see, really, evidence of such actions.
Well, I must say this is true to many cities in Africa
and other places.
However, in my opinion, I believe
the problem is essentially associated with this force
in areas that are--
with some force in areas that I'm going to talk about.
Firstly, urban planners, architects, and other
built environment professionals and practitioners are not
well-informed, and often more often than not, lack skills
and capacity for feeling, thinking,
and acting in the interest of urban sustainability,
and especially in supporting and driving our resilience.
Secondly, the urban political class--
and this comprises the policymakers, including
legislators or parliamentarians, really
do not show significant political will and interest
in promoting and deploying genuine actions for addressing
the current and future vulnerabilities that
are associated with climate change in African cities
like Kano.
I think the third issue has to do with the poor science.
Or if you like, poor scientific response
that could be really negligible knowledge outputs that
show and bring about the release some of these issues.
And I'm referring definitely to the local research
institutions.
There are too few evidence-based transdisciplinary innovative
and solution based studies are produced
in high-impact outlets.
Today in this world, we need to deploy
transparent and reproducible research that
can be verified and trusted.
Again, the fourth issue, I think, is--
it has to do with the communities themselves,
the neighborhoods that we have been talking about.
These communities, I think we are kind of indifferent.
And still, I can say, yes, these communities may be
powerless to stop the powerful.

So collectively, these four scenarios
make it hard and very difficult for Kano City in this context
to achieve or make significant strides to progress in dealing
with this kind of situation of collapse
of these instruments of sustainability.
And I think the same situation could be found in other cities
all over the world.
Nevertheless, there are quite interesting happenings
in Kano City as far as addressing climate change
is concerned.
I would say there is hope that more studies will emerge
to multiply the existing ones, and therefore,
consolidate on evidence-based knowledge poor policy
and decision support.
I think the local universities and the researchers
are recognizing this challenge.
In fact, I will say, I am also really, really excited to see--

I'm really excited to see that the local media is increasingly
becoming more involved, more resolved,
and concerned about these issues.
Compared to, I think, the last 10 years,
the media is now more proactive definitely
in reporting climate change issues in Kano.
Nevertheless, I am most delighted and encouraged
by the kind of responses that are coming from the youth.
This is very important growth in that the younger generation has
the numerical strength and energy
for undertaking positive actions to promote climate resilience.
This is quite interesting, especially
in the way they engage themselves
with the nature-based solutions.
I think this demographic group needs
more skills and the capacity for them to do more.
The youth have formed several organizations
under which they undertake tree planting campaigns.
And this is quite interesting.
And I think there are signs and hope that these citizen-driven
actions will eventually galvanize the governments
and planners to do--
and even other stakeholders to do more
in supporting and promoting urban climate resilience.
