MATTIA F. LEONE: Hi everyone, dealing
with such a wide topic for planning and design
as the technological and environmental qualities
of building envelope and surface materials for building
and open spaces would require a whole module by itself.
So we will try here to concentrate on a few key aspects
that link building technologies and construction
materials to indoor-outdoor thermal comfort, water
management, and energy consumption.
Human comfort, in particular, is connected
to a delicate balance between temperature and humidity conditions.
Which can be effectively supported by bioclimatic solutions
which include passive design for building envelope and surface
heat and water control,
before getting to the critical thresholds
which need the support of active heating
or cooling systems, and consequent energy uses.
Understanding the specific thresholds of comfort conditions
depending on the local climate is a key
to define suitable strategies.
Many design software and online tools
can help to perform this essential step.
The next step is to identify the urban morphology
and construction features that determine solar radiation
distribution in urban areas, which is converted into heat
with strong local variations depending
on factors such as building density and Sky View Factor,
and materials' properties such as albedo, permeability,
and thermal capacity.
Key parameters to model the effect of building an open spaces
design are then linked to both general aspects
such as morphology and the layout of built areas in cities,
both specific ones, such as the surface area to volume and the glazing
ratio of buildings,
the thermal properties of the building envelope and heat
and water control properties of different surface materials.
In particular, the variation of heat conditions
due to surface parameters of buildings and open spaces clearly
emerge from satellite survey or simulations,
highlighting the benefits of shading and solar reflection.
This is mainly due to the albedo and the heat
capacity of the different material, which regulates
the amount of thermal component of solar radiation accumulated
and released in the diurnal-nocturnal cycle.
At planning and design level,
buildings and outdoor paved areas should be drafted and modeled
together with green and blue surfaces,
providing details about technological solutions
and materials used with respect to the key parameters
previously outlined,
with a multi-scale approach able to give guidance
throughout the whole building process, from masterplanning to final design.
Such an approach can be adapted to the drafting
of planning guidelines and building regulations
at city level,
having care of conveying the key urban climate principles
and the basic design concepts which
can be easily adapted to any different city contexts..
Urban microclimate, energy consumption,
and carbon footprint of cities then largely
depend on the specific design and technological features
of buildings.
Passive design solutions help to achieve indoor comfort
by minimizing energy needs and the release of exhuasted heat outdoors.
A compact form, characterized by a low envelope surface to volume
ratio,
limits energy exchanges with the external environment,
influencing energy performance both in cold and hot season.
Indoor spaces requiring continuous heating
should be positioned towards south, southeast,
and southwest,
those needing cooling towards north, northeast. northwest.
The organization of the spatial- functional layout
according to solar orientation should be, in any case,
evaluated depending on the intended use of the building
and the reference climate zone.
To achieve optimal performance, the building envelope must be designed with adequate
terminal mass and lag time, to mitigate the thermal
fluctuations in the indoor environment
due to cyclical variations in the outdoor temperature.
Facade screening or micro-ventilation can also
provide effective effective passive cooling in the hot season.
The choice of finishing materials with light colors
and high solar reflectance index (SRI),
the use of roof gardens or green facades
help to mitigate the urban heat island effect.
The correct sizing of glazing systems can
balance natural daylight, heat losses
and solar gains (in the cold season), and heat load (in the hot season).
Insulating frames and low-emission glasses
should be carefully selected depending on the climate zone
and building program.
Glazing with a south, southeast, southwest
orientation may be provided with solar control glass.
Sun shading systems mitigate solar radiation,
visible and infrared.
External sun shading systems are the most effective strategies
in terms of reducing internal heat gains, while internal sun shading only
reduce the light component of solar radiation, with no significant
thermal benefit.
Sizing and positioning of shading elements
should be adapted to facade's orientation and position
of the sun in the different seasons,
with south facades generally requiring horizontal shading
and east and west facades generally requiring
vertical shading, due to the lower height of the sun.
By looking at the majority of cities
around the world, where external a/c units represent
the most iconic and widespread "architectural" elements
of building facades, we can see the result
of an historic period characterized
by a huge and accelerated construction
development and poor energy and climate consideration,
partly due to the low cost of energy, mostly coal and
oil, and the lack of scientific consensus
about the role of human activity of climate change,
thus aggravating the critical phenomena
we have today to deal with, such as urban heat
island and anthropogenic emissions in cities.
But there is a hope for the future, grounded on the fact that
humans, for millennia, before the advent of HVAC systems
and unprecedented urban sprawl started at the end
of the Second World War, have adapted their settlements
and construction features to local climate conditions.
Ancient, like Socrates and Vitruvius, and modern,
like Frank Lloyd Wright and Hassan Fathy, masters
can still guide us today to inspire climate-resilient
and carbon neutral design principles and solutions.