
MATT BETHEL: Hi, everyone.
I'm Matt Bethel, and I'm with Louisiana Sea Grant
and I'm based at the Louisiana State University
in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
This session is about using traditional ecological
knowledge and science in applied research approaches
and knowledge co-production to support climate adaptation
and resilience.
My work focuses on communities and coastal areas,
so I'll share some examples from coastal Louisiana
in this session.
So first, what is TEK?
You may or may not be familiar with that term,
traditional ecological knowledge.
And there are many definitions in the literature,
but I'm going to share my screen.
Let's see.

And here is a definition that I like in particular,
and it's from the Native Women's Association of Canada.
And TEK is a sophisticated knowledge
possessed by a group or individual about an environment
as a result of having lived in and observed
an environment for generations.
It is both evolving and current and incorporates
a historical, cultural, and spiritual perspective
of locals' existence in that environment.
These concepts and associated terminology
are complex and continually evolving,
and vary across communities and places.
Terms to refer to these types of knowledge systems
and literature include Indigenous knowledge,
Indigenous science, traditional and local knowledge,
Indigenous traditional knowledge, et cetera.
But for the purposes of this session, this presentation,
I will use the term TEK, traditional ecological
knowledge.
And what I wanted to do is just first share
the core idea related to this session,
is that local vulnerabilities to many coastal hazards
can be best addressed through meaningful and respectful
engagement with the producers and stewards of TEK
to help ensure diverse perspectives are included
in applied research that informs a variety of practical actions
that promote resilience.
And achieving this vision requires
that we recognize, understand, value, support,
and include TEK and the holders of that knowledge
into our climate adaptation planning
at every level of the process.
So why do we need to think about this topic and some things
to consider?

So TEK and knowledge gained via modern scientific methods
are different, but they're often complementary and parallel ways
of knowing.
TEK includes information about the biological, physical,
social, cultural, and spiritual worlds
that knowledge bearers inhabit and engage with.
I've listed some examples you see here
in this slide of what TEK observations can include.
But this place-based knowledge can
inform science-based environmental management
applications by providing local ecological information
and narrative histories of local ecosystems,
as well as best practices and rules
about how to live within and care for the natural world that
is our shared home.
However, this first-hand ecosystem information
can be difficult to access, collect, analyze,
and quantify for traditionally trained physical scientists.
Like me, my background is in applied environmental sciences
and geosciences.
And as a result, this type of observational knowledge, TEK,
often takes a backseat to western-based scientific data
and modeling when environmental management and adaptation
decisions are being made.
However, Indigenous communities, and to an extent
other groups of people whose livelihoods depend
on natural resources such as fishing communities
that I'm most familiar with working here in Louisiana
and other coastal areas, these communities
are often on the front lines of climate change
and have unique perspectives about human ecological
relationships that come from many generations of living
in a place and depending on a place for their survival,
identity, culture, and sustenance.
Recognizing this relationship between people and places
and different ways of knowing can
begin to help people overcome philosophical and ideological
differences, and thus find ways in which different knowledge
systems may complement each other to enhance decision
making and improve our ability to adapt to climate changes.
A strong connection to place that many of these people
have helps to inspire innovative ideas
to promote greater sustainability
of vulnerable ecosystems and the communities that
depend on them, but often they lack institutional support
to implement them, these ideas.
So overcoming this barrier requires a better understanding
of the perception of the issues and what they prioritize
in sustaining their cultures and the ecosystems
on which they depend.
Better inclusion of their knowledge into applied research
is necessary to support these communities in their efforts
to make sure their knowledge is recognized, understood,
and valued in climate hazard mitigation and adaptation
planning efforts that impact them.

So what I'm going to do is I'm going
to share an example from my perspective of working
with a community, in this case, the Pointe-Au-Chien Indian
tribe in southeast Louisiana.
This is an example of a community
I work with here on the coast of tribes,
Indigenous-- different fishing communities
here in coastal Louisiana.
And some of the priority resilience issues
at the local level include a flooding and land
loss, a safe working and living environment,
maintaining connection to the land and water for livelihoods
in community cultural continuity,
education opportunities for their younger generations,
and opportunity for meaningful participation in planning
processes.
These are common themes among all the communities
I work with.
And thinking about this, I realized that resilience
can be a broadly used term.
But in the context of this session,
I'm referring to the ability of a community
to bounce back after a hazardous event, such as a hurricane,
coastal storm, flooding, rather than simply reacting
to the impacts of events like these.
So now I'm going to share the collaborative research
example I mentioned earlier between Louisiana Sea
Grant, LSU, Louisiana State University, the University
of New Orleans, and the Pointe-Au-Chien Indian tribe
in coastal Louisiana to help illustrate
how TEK and science based information
are being used in a complementary way
to enhance local climate adaptation and resilience
planning.

The Pointe-Au-Chien Indian tribe community
is in Terrebonne and Lafourche parishes in South Louisiana
and the surrounding marsh areas include
diverse natural and cultural resources
such as birds, plants, animals, fish, cemeteries, sacred sites,
and abandoned village sites.
Historically, tribe members were fishers, hunters, and farmers,
and while Pointe-Au-Chien continues
to be a fishing community, climate-related hazards
threaten its continued existence and ability to thrive.
And you see here is a photo provided
by one of the collaborating Pointe-Au-Chien tribe members
of family members that were down the Pointe-Au-Chien Bayou here
in the 1930s and they were still building traditional huts made
from Palmetto leaves, which are found in these lands,
in these marshes.
And you can notice the dense forest vegetation there.
So adaptation by tribal members have not
been sufficient, though, to withstand
increased tropical storm impacts because of the loss of much
of their traditional lands to open water,
exposing the community to greater storm surge and even
more frequent flooding.

In my next slide, I'm going to show you--
so the land loss issue is big here in Southeast Louisiana.
And you can see in this map we generated
as part of that project with the Pointe-Au-Chien community,
the historical land loss that was mapped since the 1930s
when that photo was taken up until more
modern times of 2010.
And you can see that Pointe-Au-Chien's lands
are in that red box that you see there.
But everything in the lighter shades of blue
was once land back in the 1930s and is now open water.
And this is a drone shot that we took in 2015
working with the tribe.
And it just gives you a better perspective
of the land and the area that we're working with.
You can see our boat there.
See, there's a lot of canals and cuts crisscrossed
into this marsh area.
And those are where oil and gas activity has cut into the marsh
to extract oil and gas and then leaves open
these canals, which tend to exacerbate the land loss that's
already occurring here.
Relative sea level rise is a big problem.
And you can see there's some coastal restoration
projects that are ongoing.
These were terraces being built in some open water areas
to try to prevent further erosion, and that was in 2015.
Today, those terraces are still there
and they're vegetated now, and still providing
some added protection.

And here you see an example another tribe
member shared with me, photos from the cut
off pass back in 1907.
You see the top photo and then the bottom photo
is that same area from that same vantage point in 2017.
And you can see that's just illustrative of the land loss
that's happened in this area.
And then Hurricane Ida devastated
the Pointe-Au-Chien community in August of 2021.
And following Hurricane Ida's devastating impacts
to the community, the tribe is developing
a comprehensive community-based strategy
to become more resilient to future storms.

So we collaborated with the Pointe-Au-Chien on this study
to develop a decision support tool that
aids the tribe in assessing local ecological change
and associated risks to its resilience.
This process began by listening and learning
from the participating tribe members,
then sharing information about climate science
relative to the local issues when appropriate.

And using remote sensing data sets and geographic information
systems, my background, like I said,
is a geoscientist and environmental scientist,
so I like to map things.
And we use GIS and remote sensing
to represent aspects of the tribe's TEK
to achieve the project goal.
The collaborative team developed methods
for producing interactive maps that
reflect local perceptions of landscape features
within the tribe subsistence resource and livelihood
base that contribute most to the community's
physical vulnerability and coastal hazards.
You can see in this map, and if you
remember from the drone footage, something
very important from the tribe's perspective
is that these oil canals that were once dug
are continuing to open up and contribute to the land loss.
So we mapped those as part of this project
and in collaboration with the Pointe-Au-Chien tribe.

And then here you see also on the flip side of that coin,
those canals may be opening and contributing to land loss.
But the spoil that's thrown on the banks of the canals
has remained in some parts intact to be
some of the highest features in this area.
And the tribe now sees them because they've
become vegetated.
Trees and shrubs have grown on them.
They see them as effective speed bumps
to approaching storm surge that help to protect the tribe.
And here we mapped some of the spoil banks that are still
pretty high and dense, as compared to others
that have eroded and sunk, and have gone away.
And so these are important sustainability features
that are now part of the landscape from the tribe's
perspective.

Sorry.
And so this is the example of the final map
that was produced.
So what this does is show the map
that features with the tribe's subsistence and resource
livelihood base that contributes most
to the community's physical vulnerability
to coastal hazards.
So we combined all of those factors
that emerge through that process, the oil canals
being one of them, but not the only one.
And then the sustainability factors.
We also mapped the spore banks being one,
but again, not the only one, developed these composite maps,
worked with the tribe to develop them
in a way that could be useful for their climate adaptation
and resilience planning purposes.
And so in addition to providing a resource that the tribe can
use to inform its short and long-term coastal hazards
and climate adaptation planning, the results of this
work we also published in the Journal of Environmental
Management.
And we offer this as a case study
to consider how Indigenous communities
like the Pointe-Au-Chien are shaping their own adaptation
planning efforts in line with their unique needs,
cultural practices, and values.
And this project is one example of how the tribe works
to increase its agency in building adaptive capacity
to climate change impacts through collaboration
with external subject matter experts like me and scientists.

So I also wanted to share a few things
before I move on to that.
So a couple of key issues and opportunities.
I think there's a need to identify and examine methods
to address the rift between TEK and science and ways
to narrow that divide by utilizing both TEK
and science to inform climate adaptation strategies in ways
that leverage that complementarity
of the differences between the two knowledge systems,
as I mentioned before.
Another issue relates to data accessibility, data sovereignty
issues.
And so to effectively work with Indigenous
and other place-based communities,
there must be respect for the knowledge holders,
or the TEK experts.
And research protocols to protect confidential TEK,
this begins and ends with establishing and maintaining
trust among all involved in the research process.
Also another issue, understanding and addressing
capacity limitations to include external resource providers
and receiving communities.
And so through the collaborative work centered around knowledge
co-production, we can work together
to build capacity for TEK holders and their communities
to identify, share, and address research and information
needs while promoting planning and policy initiatives that
are accessible to diverse audiences,
and address locally relevant concerns or issues.
And another issue that I think there's opportunity
here is sometimes different forms of knowledge
are conflicting and information can
be presented at scales that are not appropriate for local level
decision making.
For example, it can be challenging to apply
national and regional level climate-related tools, data,
and services at the local level.
Local community leadership managers
often expressed frustration in how
to determine which planning tools are best suited
for their needs, as well as how to customize tools that
are often built with available large scale generic data
sets to be more applicable at the local level.
There is opportunity to improve the current state-of-the-art
regarding data information and tools that are available
for communities to plan and identify strategies to improve
their resilience and meet other community priorities.
For example, researchers have developed
and are developing innovative methods
for finding common ground through knowledge convergence,
consensus building, and participatory mapping
approaches such as illustrated in this example
that I'm sharing.
These are some promising methods and tools
for including local input in formats
that can be used to assess trade-offs in decision making
and weighting priorities across a diversity of scales
in adaptation and resilience efforts.

Now so wrapping up, I just wanted
to share that this is really an exciting time
to be working at the intersection of TEK and science
to inform climate adaptation planning.
There's still a long way to go, but TEK
is being increasingly recognized by scientists and decision
makers to include the highest levels
of our national government.
In this slide, I share some examples of that.
I want to point to the White House
memo that was published in November of 2021
formally recognizing Indigenous knowledge
and elevating its importance for including
traditional and local knowledge and the like
in federal policy decisions.
The emphasis on tribal engagement
in the America the Beautiful initiative,
and agencies such as NOAA hiring a senior advisor
for tribal affairs, as well as several tribal engagement
specialists across the country.
Many of the open funding opportunities
with the federal agencies and offered
through the new bipartisan infrastructure law also
specifically call out working with tribes
and tribal entities and traditional knowledge holders.
This recognition offers opportunity
to broaden participation and engage stakeholders
in a meaningful way so that new and better ideas
emerge and will benefit individuals, communities,
and society through collaborative applied research,
just as the science of community resilience and adaptation
planning is developing.
The results could fundamentally impact how community adaptation
planning is conducted and who is involved
in the development of ideas that lead to innovations improving
community resilience.

Thank you for your time and interest in this session topic.
